eCollection 2019.Extrafine triple therapy delays COPD clinically important deterioration vs ICS/LABA, LAMA, or LABA/LAMA.Singh D(1), Fabbri LM(2)(3), Vezzoli S(4), Petruzzelli S(4), Papi A(2).Author information:(1)Medicines Evaluation Unit, University of Manchester, Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK, dsingh@meu.org.uk.(2)Section of Cardiorespiratory and Internal Medicine, Department of Medical Sciences, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.(3)COPD Center, Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.(4)Global Clinical Development, Chiesi Farmaceutici SpA, Parma, Italy.
Patients initiating LABA-LAMA on the same day (no ICS) were matched on time-conditional high-dimensional propensity scores with patients initiating LABA-ICS on the same day (no LAMA), and monitored for 1 year for the occurrence of a moderate or severe COPD exacerbation and severe pneumonia.
Features indicative of ICS usage were as follows: a history of asthma, blood eosinophils of ≥300 cells/μl, or ≥ 2 exacerbations in the year prior to enrollment.
Among baseline ICS users, we compared annual total and severe exacerbation rates, based on ICS continuation or withdrawal.
RESULTS: ICS-containing regimens were prescribed to 46.3% of the enrolled of patients in 2014; this decreased to 38.8% in 2017, and long-acting dual bronchodilators were used instead.
Among ICS users in 2017, 47.5% did not exhibit features indicative of ICS usage; 478 used ICS at baseline, and ICS was withdrawn in 77 (16.1%) during the study period.
The proportion of patients with asthma and the baseline annual exacerbation rate were greater in the ICS withdrawal groinup than in the ICS continued group (56.6% vs. 41%, p = 0.01; 0.79 vs. 0.53, p < 0.001).
Annual exacerbation rates during the follow-up period were similar between the ICS-withdrawal and ICS -continued groups (0.48 vs. 0.47, p = 0.84); however, former exhibited a significantly higher rate of severe exacerbation (0.22 vs. 0.12, p = 0.03).CONCLUSIONS: Prescriptions of ICS to treat COPD decreased with increased use of long-acting dual bronchodilators.
ICS withdrawal might impact severe exacerbation; the potential risks and benefits of withdrawing ICS should therefore be considered based on patients' characteristics.
Triple therapy resulted in the reduction of the annual rate of moderate or severe exacerbations in the range of 15-52% compared with LAMA/LABA, 15-35% compared to LABA/ICS and 20% compared to LAMA.
Epub 2019 Jan 17.Adding a LAMA to ICS/LABA Therapy: A Meta-analysis of Triple Combination Therapy in COPD.Calzetta L(1), Cazzola M(2), Matera MG(3), Rogliani P(1).Author information:(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, Unit of Respiratory Medicine, University of Rome "Tor Vergata," Rome, Italy.(2)Department of Experimental Medicine, Unit of Respiratory Medicine, University of Rome "Tor Vergata," Rome, Italy.
2019 May;155(5):1079-1080.BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) combination is commonly prescribed to treat COPD; therefore, we performed a meta-analysis on the effect of adding a long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (LAMA) to ICS/LABA combination in COPD.METHODS: Studies were identified by searching in different databases the randomized controlled trials that investigated the effect of ICS/LABA/LAMA combination in COPD.
The primary end points were the effect of triple therapy on trough FEV1, risk of acute exacerbation of COPD (AECOPD), and risk of cardiovascular serious adverse events (SAEs), compared with ICS/LABA combination.
RESULTS: Thirteen randomized controlled trials including 15,519 patients with COPD (ICS/LABA/LAMA combination, 53.1%; ICS/LABA combination, 46.9%) were meta-analyzed.
For every approximately four patients treated with triple therapy, one increased FEV1 > 100 mL, and approximately 26 patients had to be treated for 1 year with ICS/LABA/LAMA combination to prevent one AECOPD, compared with ICS/LABA combination.
Adding a LAMA to ICS/LABA therapy did not modulate the risk of cardiovascular SAEs (moderate quality of evidence).CONCLUSIONS: Triple therapy provides significant clinical benefit in patients with COPD on ICS/LABA combination.
Triple therapy was prescribed to 32.9% (treatment category E) of patients and 29.8% received a combination of two treatments (treatment categories C or D); ICS-containing regimen were present for 44% of patients altogether.
EXPERT OPINION: Several studies have confirmed the good safety profile of bronchodilators available both in monotherapy and in association with other bronchodilators of different classes or with ICS despite the device used.
The number of patients with pneumonia events and time to first event (Kaplan-Meier analysis) were evaluated (post-hoc), stratified by baseline blood neutrophil count and ICS use.
The ICS (n = 6735) and non-ICS (n = 4396) cohorts were well matched in neutrophil distributions and demographics.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased blood neutrophils in COPD were associated with increased pneumonia risk, independent of ICS use.
The latest GOLD 2018 (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Disease) guidelines recommend the triple therapy in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in patients of group D who despite the combination of two drugs: LAMA/LABA or ICS/LABA continue to have persistent symptoms or suffer from further frequent exacerbations.
Expert commentary: A 20% reduction in the risk of moderate or severe exacerbation was found in patients receiving triple therapy compared to the ICS/LABA combination and LAMA monotherapy.
Patients identified as taking an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β agonist (LABA) inhaler and a long-acting muscarinic agonist (LAMA) inhaler were changed to a LAMA/LABA inhaler and an ICS inhaler.
We included studies that allowed participants to continue using their ICS during the trial as long as the ICS was not part of the randomised treatment.
Concomitant inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use was permitted in all of the included studies (where stated); across the included studies, between 28% to 58% of participants were using ICS at baseline.
On the contrary, adding a LAMA to an ICS/LABA combination elicits relevant clinical benefit in the general COPD population, supporting the role of dual bronchodilation therapy for the treatment of COPD.
The quantitative synthesis of the currently available clinical evidence seems to suggest that, in patients with COPD already on ICS/LABA combination, the therapy can be improved without an increase of cardiovascular severe adverse events (SAEs) when a LAMA is added to the combination.
RESULTS: Lower exacerbation rates were observed for FF/VI versus UC across all subgroups/strata, including ICS + LABA therapy subset (8.0% [0.1, 15.4]), except in patients without baseline airflow limitation (-0.5% [-29.8, 22.1]).
Larger reductions compared to the overall analysis were observed for patients on ICS-containing regimens (excluding LAMA) before the study (15.6% [3.4, 26.3]), and with baseline CAT score <10 (25.3% [-0.4, 44.4]).
SAESI rates were not increased for FF/VI versus other ICS + LABA.CONCLUSIONS: Initiating FF/VI versus continuing UC reduced exacerbation rates without increased pneumonia SAESI risk compared to other ICS-containing regimens and in various patient subgroups, consistent with primary study findings.
In all groups, the majority were treated with combined long-acting beta agonist/ICS (> 50%).
CONCLUSION: Our study confirms poor adherence to guidelines regarding treatment with an overuse of ICS and important barriers to implementation.
The eligibility criteria were as follows: (1) parallel-design randomized controlled trials (RCTs); (2) adults with stable COPD; (3) comparisons among long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs), inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), combined treatment (ICS/LAMA/LABA, LAMA/LABA, or ICS/LABA), or a placebo; and (4) study duration ≥ 12 weeks.
In addition, in contrast to the other drug classes, ICS/LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA were associated with a significantly higher probability of reducing mortality than placebo (OR = 0.74, 95% CrI 0.59-0.93, P[OR > 1] = 0.004; and OR = 0.86, 95% CrI 0.76-0.98, P[OR > 1] = 0.015, respectively).
Mean PDC for the ICS/LABA and LAMA component at 12 months was 49% (0.49±0.31; median, 0.47) and 54% (0.54±0.33; 0.56), respectively.
The electronic patient record system in each participating general practice was searched for patients coded as COPD (ICPC, Second Edition code R95) and treated with ICS (ACT code R03AK and R03BA, that is, ICS in combination with a long-acting β2-agonist) or ICS as monotherapy.
Of all patients registered in the 138 participating general practices, 12.560 (3%) were coded as COPD, of whom 32% were prescribed ICS.
The final study sample comprised 2.289 COPD patients currently prescribed ICS (98% also prescribed long-acting β2-agonist), with 24% being coded as both COPD and asthma.
Although only one-third of the COPD patients were prescribed ICSs, our findings from this study of a large cohort of patients prescribed ICSs for COPD in general practice suggest that more detailed assessment of diagnosis and disease characteristics is likely to improve the risk-benefit ratio of maintenance therapy with ICSs in COPD patients managed in primary care.
The majority of previous reviews have investigated specific ICS and non-ICS inhalers and have consisted of randomised control trials (RCTs), which have specific inclusion and exclusion criteria and short follow up times.
We aimed to investigate the association between change in FEV1 and ICS-containing medications in COPD patients over longer follow up times.
MEDLINE and EMBASE were searched and literature comparing change in FEV1 in COPD patients taking ICS-containing medications with patients taking non-ICS-containing medications were identified.
We found that the difference in change in FEV1 in people using ICS and non-ICS containing medications depended on the study follow-up time.
Shorter follow-up studies (1 year or less) were more likely to report an increase in FEV1 from baseline in both patients on ICS and in patients on non-ICS-containing medications, with the majority of these studies showing a greater increase in FEV1 in patients on ICS-containing medications.
Longer follow-up studies (greater than 1 year) were more likely to report a decline in FEV1 from baseline in patients on ICS and in patients on non-ICS containing medications but rates of FEV1 decline were similar.
Further studies are needed to better understand changes in FEV1 when ICS-containing medications are prescribed and to determine whether ICS-containing medications influence rate of decline in FEV1 in the long term.
Epub 2019 Feb 6.Assessment of COPD-related outcomes in patients initiating a once daily or twice daily ICS/LABA.Stanford RH(1), Parker ED(2), Reinsch TK(3), Buikema AR(2), Blauer-Peterson C(2).Author information:(1)US Value Evidence and Outcomes, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.
Real-world information on the impact on healthcare costs and exacerbation risk of initiating once-daily or twice daily ICS/LABA in this patient population is limited.
The study included new initiators of ICS/LABA as either FF/VI or BUD/F for COPD, ≥40 years of age at index, ≥15 months of continuous enrollment (12 months pre-index and ≥3 months post-index).
Since 2002, LAMA showed increasing popularity, while ICS alone exhibited an inverse trend.
Fluticasone furoate and Vilanterol (FF/VI) as a once-daily ICS/LABA combination have an extensive clinical trial and real-world data to support its use in COPD patients.
Expert opinion: ICS/LABA combinations provide bronchodilation and decrease the frequency of COPD exacerbations.
Asthma-COPD overlap (ACO), patients with sputum and/or blood eosinophilia, patients with a brisk bronchodilator response, and patients with frequent exacerbations are more likely to show a therapeutic response to ICS than populations who have none of these features.
FF/VI will likely remain a popular ICS/LBA combination to treat COPD, as a once-daily inhaled therapy delivered via the Ellipta device popular with COPD patients, with extensive clinical trial and real-world data to support its use.
Medication subgroups were segmented by treatment status at screening: a) maintenance-naïve or on maintenance medications, b) inhaled corticosteroid [ICS]-free or ICS-treated, c) low or high albuterol use based on median run-in use (< 3.6 or ≥ 3.6 puffs/day).
RESULTS: Of 3021 patients (ITT population; UMEC/VI: n = 816; UMEC: n = 825; VI: n = 825; PBO: n = 555), 36% had a recent exacerbation history, 33% were maintenance-naïve, 51% were ICS-free.
VI had no benefit versus PBO in maintenance-naïve, ICS-free, and low rescue use patients and was significantly less effective than UMEC/VI in these subgroups.
UMEC had no significant benefit versus PBO in maintenance-naïve and ICS-free patients.
The incidence of severe pneumonia requiring hospitalization was increased with LAMA-LABA-ICS initiation (HR, 1.46; 95% CI, 1.03-2.06).CONCLUSIONS: In a real-world setting of COPD treatment, the triple combination of LAMA, LABA, and ICS inhalers is generally as effective as combining LAMA and LABA inhalers in preventing COPD exacerbations.
However, with the possible exception of patients with significant eosinophilia or frequent exacerbators, a LAMA-LABA combination without ICS may be preferable because it is associated with fewer severe cases of pneumonia.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the appropriateness of ICS treatment in COPD patients using the algorithm proposed by the International Primary Care Respiratory Group (IPCRG) and to identify factors associated with ICS treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Appropriateness of ICS therapy was studied with respect to concomitant asthma, history of exacerbations and blood eosinophils (B-Eos) in a Swedish cohort of primary and secondary care patients with COPD.
Factors associated with ICS were investigated using multivariable logistic regression.
RESULTS: Triple treatment was found to be the most common treatment combination, used by 46% of the 561 included patients, and in total 63% were using ICS.
When applying the IPCRG algorithm, there was a possible indication for discontinuation of ICS in 55% of the patients with ICS treatment.
Of the patients not using ICS, 18% had an indication for starting such treatment.
The strongest factors associated with ICS therapy were frequent exacerbations (aOR 8.61, 95% CI 4.06, 20.67), secondary care contacts (aOR 6.99, 95% CI 2.48, 25.28) and very severe airflow limitation (aOR 5.91, 95% CI 1.53, 26.58).CONCLUSION: More than half of the COPD patients on ICS met the criteria where withdrawal of the treatment could be tried.
There was, however, also a subgroup of patients not using ICS for whom there was an indication for starting ICS treatment.
Patients using ICS were characterized by more frequent exacerbations and lower lung function.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) is commonly used in the management of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) for symptom relief and exacerbation prevention; however, there is a growing concern that ICS increases risk of osteoporosis and fractures in patients with COPD.RECENT FINDINGS: Osteoporosis is a major comorbidity of COPD.
There is evidence from large observational studies that use of ICS for prolonged period of time (e.g. ≥4 years) is associated with accelerated loss of bone mineral density and increased risk of fractures in a dose-dependent and time-dependent fashion in patients with COPD.
The risk of fractures appears increase significantly when high doses of ICS (at least 250 μg/day in fluticasone or equivalents) are used for a long period of time (at least 3 years).SUMMARY: ICS increases risk of bone demineralization and fracture in patients with COPD.
In patients receiving NAC and long-acting inhaled bronchodilator(s) but no ICS, there was a 60% reduction in the rate of exacerbations compared to those receiving placebo, long-acting bronchodilator(s) and ICS (p < 0.0001).CONCLUSIONS: Overall, these post-hoc hypothesis-generating analyses confirm that NAC reduces the rate of COPD exacerbations, particularly in patients with COPD who have a significant smoking history, and in those not treated with ICS.
NAC may provide an alternative to ICS-containing combinations in these patient subgroups.
doi: 10.1186/s12890-018-0771-9.A prospective study of salvational intervention with ICS/LABA for reducing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation under severe air pollution (SIRCAP) in Beijing: protocol of a multi-center randomized controlled trial.
Theophylline use as add-on therapy to ICS and LABA might be associated with an increased risk for overall exacerbation in patients with COPD.
All cases were current ICS users, with a mean duration of (27.3±9.7) months, ranging from 3 months to 61 months.
Conclusions: When COPD patients treated with ICS showed aggravated cough, expectation and/or dyspnea, and new occurrence of bronchiectasis and/or "tree in bud" sign in the recent HRCT, the differential diagnosis of NTM-LD should be considered.
We conducted a narrative literature review reporting results of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of an ICS versus placebo over a treatment period of at least 12 months, with the aim of providing further insight into the link between bone fractures and ICS therapy.
The ICSs studied were budesonide (six studies), fluticasone propionate (five studies), mometasone furoate (three studies), beclomethasone dipropionate, triamcinolone acetonide, and fluticasone furoate (one each).
We found no difference in the number of bone fractures among patients receiving ICSs versus placebo across the six identified RCTs reporting fracture data.
The exact relationship between long-term ICS use and bone fracture incidence in patients with stable COPD remains unclear in light of our review.
Yang SN(1)(2), Ko HK(3)(4), Hsiao YH(3)(4), Su KC(3)(4), Chang YL(1)(5), Huang HY(6)(7), Perng DW(3)(4), Chung MI(2).Author information:(1)Department of Pharmacy, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.(2)School of Pharmacy, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, ROC.(3)Department of Chest Medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.(4)School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.(5)Department and Institute of Pharmacology, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.(6)College of Public Health, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.(7)Biostatistics Task Force, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.BACKGROUND: Whether the beneficial effects of long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) are better than those of long-acting β2 agonist/corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) in preventing exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) remains unclear.
This study aimed to assess the risk of exacerbations in moderate to severe COPD patients receiving LAMA versus LABA/ICS.METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients diagnosed with COPD (2008-2010).
The inclusion criteria were age ≥ 40 years, forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) 30% to 80% of predicted value and at least three prescriptions for COPD medication, including LAMA or LABA/ICS.RESULTS: Of the 557 COPD patients screened, 90 patients were enrolled in the analysis.
The demographic characteristics of patients receiving LABA/ICS or LAMA were similar.
The all exacerbation rates was significantly higher in patients with global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease stage II COPD treated with LABA/ICS than in those treated with LAMA (p = 0.001), regardless of previous exacerbation history.
Patients with previous exacerbation history showed an independent increase in the risk of moderate or severe exacerbation compared with those without exacerbation history (hazard ratio 3.86, 95% CI 1.75-8.53, p = 0.001).CONCLUSION: In comparison with LABA/ICS, LAMA is beneficial in reducing exacerbation risk for moderate COPD.
At V1, fewer patients made ≥1 critical error with ELLIPTA (10%) versus other ICS/LABA DPIs (Turbuhaler: 40%, OR 4.66, P=0.005; DISKUS: 26%, OR 2.48, P=0.114) and other LAMA or LAMA/LABA DPIs (HandiHaler: 34%, OR 3.50, P=0.026; Breezhaler: 33%, OR 3.94, P=0.012).
Critical error rates with the primary ICS/LABA DPI were not significantly different between ELLIPTA ICS/LABA (10%) and ICS/LABA plus LAMA groups (12-25%).
Critical errors with the primary ICS/LABA DPI occurred less frequently with ELLIPTA ICS/LABA with or without LAMA (11%) versus Turbuhaler ICS/LABA with or without LAMA (39%, OR 3.99, P<0.001) and DISKUS ICS/LABA with or without LAMA (26%, OR 2.18, P=0.069).
Between-group comparisons were similar to V1.CONCLUSION: Fewer patients made critical errors with ELLIPTA versus other ICS/LABA, and LAMA or LAMA/LABA DPIs.
Epub 2019 Oct 19.Impact of ICS/LABA and LABA/LAMA FDCs on functional and clinical outcomes in COPD: A network meta-analysis.
The aim of the present network meta-analysis was to assess the comparative efficacy of all the currently available dual therapies in patients with moderate-to-severe COPD.METHODS: A network meta-analysis (≥3 nodes, Bayesian method) was performed by searching for randomized clinical trials (RCTs) that compared the impact of different LABA/LAMA FDCs vs. ICS/LABA FDCs on both primary and secondary endpoints.
All LABA/LAMA FDCs, except aclidinium/formoterol, produced a statistically significant improvement compared to ICS/LABAs in trough FEV1.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this meta-analysis show that LABA/LAMA combinations are consistently more effective than ICS/LABA FDCs for most of the evaluated outcomes.
This review summarizes the position of LAMA/LABA combinations in treatment recommendations, and the evidence supporting their placement relative to LAMA monotherapy and ICS/LABA combination therapy, as well as differences within the LAMA/LABA class.
Most studies show that LAMA/LABA treatment leads to greater improvements in lung function and symptoms than LAMA monotherapy or ICS/LABA treatment.
There are fewer studies comparing the impact of different medication classes on patients' risk of exacerbations; however, the available evidence suggests that LAMA/LABA treatment and LAMA monotherapy lead to a similar reduction in exacerbation risk, while the effect of LAMA/LABA compared with ICS/LABA remains unclear.
There is a lower risk of pneumonia with LAMA/LABA compared with ICS/LABA.
The data situation for the use of ICS in asthma is clear.
In the case of COPD, on the other hand, where in recent years the pendulum has moved away from ICS towards a dual therapy based on LABA / LAMA, the discussion is open again thanks to new work.
However, it would certainly be wrong to recommend ICS as a meaningful therapy for all COPD patients at this point in time, since therapy with ICS is associated with side effects, in particular an increase in the risk of developing pneumonia or osteoporosis.
However, there is no doubt that patients with asthma COPD overlap require ICS therapy.
Zum Einsatz von ICS beim Asthma ist die Datenlage klar.
Bei der COPD hingegen, bei der in den letzten Jahren das Pendel weg von ICS, hin zu einer dualen Therapie aus LABA / LAMA geschwungen war, ist die Diskussion durch neue Arbeiten wieder offen.
Es wäre aber sicher falsch, zum jetzigen Zeitpunkt ICS als sinnvolle Therapie für alle COPD-Patienten zu empfehlen, da die Therapie mit ICS mit Nebenwirkungen behaftet ist, v. a. der Erhöhung des Risikos an einer Pneumonie bzw.
Keinen Zweifel gibt es aber daran, dass Patienten mit Asthma COPD Overlap einer ICS-Therapie bedürfen.
METHODS: We conducted a cohort and nested case-control study among patients with COPD aged 40 years or older to compare the risk of all-cause mortality among users of aclidinium and other COPD medications with the risk among users of long-acting β2 agonists (LABA), in the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) in the United Kingdom (2012-2017).RESULTS: Mortality rates per 1,000 person-years were 32.9 for aclidinium, 43.8 for tiotropium, 38.0 for other LAMA, 47.1 for LABA/ICS, and 38.1 for LABA.
The RR of death compared with current use of LABA was 0.54 (confidence interval [95% CI], 0.40-0.72) for aclidinium, 0.96 (95% CI, 0.76-1.21) for tiotropium, 0.76 (95% CI, 0.58-0.99) for other LAMA, and 1.08 (95% CI, 0.90-1.31) for LABA/ICS.
Decreased risk for death observed among users of aclidinium was driven by overall current single use (RR = 0.41; 95% CI, 0.22-0.79), which corresponded to 26% of the aclidinium users (<15 cases) and not by multiple use (RR = 1.02; 95% CI, 0.71-1.48).CONCLUSION: Use of aclidinium, tiotropium, other LAMA, or LABA/ICS was not associated with an increased risk of all-cause mortality as compared with the use of LABAs.
Abbreviations: 5-LOi: 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor; ACOS: asthma - COPD overlap syndrome; B2AR: Beta2 adrenergic receptors; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; cGMP: cyclic guanosine monophosphate; CI: confidence interval; COPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; CRS : chronic rhinosinusitis; cys-LT: cysteinyl leukotrienes; DPI: dry powder inhaler; EMA: European Medicines Agency; FDA: US Food and Drug Administration; FDC: fixed-dose combination; FeNO: exhaled nitric oxide; FEV1: forced expiratory volume in one second; FVC: forced vital capacity; GM-CSF: granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor; ICS : inhaled corticosteroids; IL: interleukin; ILC2: Type 2 innate lymphoid cells; IP3: Inositol triphosphate; IRR: incidence rate ratio; KOLD: Korean Obstructive Lung Disease; LABA: long-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; LAMA: long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; LRA: leukotriene receptor antagonist; LT: leukotrienes; MDI: metered-dose inhalers; MN: M-subtype muscarinic receptors; MRA: muscarinic receptor antagonist; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NEB: nebulization; OR: odds ratio; PDE: phosphodiesterase; PEFR: peak expiratory flow rate; PGD2: prostaglandin D2; PRN: as needed; RR: risk ratio; SABA: short-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; SAMA: short-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; SDMI: spring-driven mist inhaler; Th1: T helper cell 1 lymphocyte; Th2: T helper cell 2 lymphocytes; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor alpha; US : United States.
We investigated prescribing and discontinuation patterns of long-acting bronchodilators and ICS in COPD patients according to exacerbation frequency.
This study population was stratified according to consistency of exacerbation occurrence after 12, 24, 36, and 48 months of follow-up and the groups were described according to use of ICS, long-acting β2-agonists (LABA), and long-acting anticholinergics (LAMA), and combinations thereof.
Upon inclusion, 70% received ICS-containing regimens, in combination with LABA (23%) or both LABA and LAMA (41%).
The proportion of prevalent users of ICS-containing regimens decreased to 56% during follow-up among exacerbation-free individuals, while it increased to 86% in individuals who experienced at least one exacerbation annually.
Persistence to ICS-containing regimens was 58% after 4 years in individuals without exacerbations compared to 74% among those with annual exacerbations.
CONCLUSIONS: The extensive use of ICS and the relatively high persistence to ICS-containing regimens in individuals who had a decrease in exacerbation occurrence highlight a need for the development and implementation of de-escalation strategies in clinical practice.
garytferguson@msn.com.(2)AstraZeneca, Morristown, NJ, USA.(3)Parexel International, Punjab, India.(4)AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden.(5)AstraZeneca, Cambridge, UK.INTRODUCTION: Triple inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting muscarinic antagonist/long-acting β2-agonist (ICS/LAMA/LABA) combination therapy is recommended for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who experience further exacerbations/symptoms on dual LAMA/LABA or ICS/LABA therapy.
The relative efficacy of budesonide/glycopyrronium/formoterol fumarate metered dose inhaler 320/18/9.6 µg (BGF MDI) in COPD was compared with other ICS/LAMA/LABA fixed-dose and open combination therapies in a network meta-analysis (NMA).METHODS: A systematic literature review was conducted to identify randomized controlled trials of at least 10-week duration, including at least one fixed-dose or open combination triple therapy arm, in patients with moderate to very severe COPD.
Across all outcomes, there were no statistically significant differences between BGF MDI and other triple ICS/LAMA/LABA fixed-dose (fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol and beclomethasone dipropionate/glycopyrronium/formoterol fumarate) and open combinations with data available within the network.
CONCLUSION: This NMA suggested that BGF MDI has comparable efficacy to other ICS/LAMA/LABA fixed-dose and open triple combination therapies in reducing exacerbations and improving lung function and symptoms in patients with moderate to very severe COPD.
The goal of this study was to compare the risk and benefit profile of different ICS/long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) combinations in patients with COPD.METHODS: This retrospective cohort study was conducted by using national health insurance claims data from the years 2009 to 2015 in Taiwan and included patients with COPD with new ICS/LABA use.
Propensity score matching and Cox regression models were used to estimate the hazard ratios of severe pneumonia and acute exacerbation for different ICS/LABA users.
After additionally adjusting for the average daily ICS dose, BUD/FOR dry-powder inhaler users continued to have a significantly decreased risk of severe pneumonia (18%), although BEC/FOR metered-dose inhaler users did not.
CONCLUSIONS: This study augments the existing evidence concerning the different safety and effectiveness outcomes of ICS/LABA combinations in patients with COPD, which may be considered when making clinical treatment decisions.
Furthermore, patients initially treated with LAMA (HR = 1.5) and LABA/ICS (HR = 1.23) were more likely to escalate to the triple therapy, than those on LABA.
Conversely, patients initially treated with ICS presented a negative hazard (HR = 0.72).CONCLUSIONS: The knowledge of demographic and clinical determinants of the escalation to the triple inhaled therapy in real-world COPD patients may help clinicians to better personalize respiratory pharmacological treatments of their patients, and inform international societies that issue clinical guidelines.
In 2015, the most common medication was ICS (45.7% of the patients), followed by LABA (36.5%).
The number of filled prescriptions per patient per year for LAMA (+7.8% per year) and LABA (+4.9%) increased, while they decreased for SAMA (-6.3%) and SABA (-3.8%), and remained relatively constant for ICS.
Single-inhaler ICS/LABA had the highest rate of increase (11.6% per year), and comprised 53.7% of the total costs of inhalers in 2015.
In 2015, 28.5% of the patient time was on combination therapies, with 7.1% on triple ICS/LABA/LAMA therapy.
The low utilization of LAMA and high utilization of combination therapies (particularly those containing ICS) do not seem to be aligned with COPD treatment guidelines.
Epub 2019 Apr 30.Real-life effectiveness of inhaler device switch from dry powder inhalers to pressurized metred-dose inhalers in patients with asthma treated with ICS/LABA.Park HS(1), Yoon D(2), Lee HY(3), Ban GY(4), Wan Yau Ming S(5), Jie JLZ(5), Carter V(5), Hardjojo A(5), Van Boven JFM(6), Price DB(5)(7).Author information:(1)Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Ajou University Medical Center, Suwon, Korea.(2)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.(3)Department of Biostatistics, Ajou University Medical Center, Suwon, Korea.(4)Department of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Kangdong Sacred Heart Hospital, Hallym University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.(5)Observational and Pragmatic Research Institute, Singapore.(6)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Groningen Research Institute for Asthma and COPD (GRIAC), University Medical Centre Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.(7)Centre of Academic Primary Care, Division of Applied Health Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.Comment in    Respirology.
From the entire 117 patients who switched to fixed-dose combination (FDC)/ICS LABA pMDI, 76.1% (95% CI: 69.0-100.0%) patients persisted in the following 6 months.
The majority of patients persisted with the switch to pMDI for ICS/LABA treatment.
Patients in both groups were just as likely to receive inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs), but patients with incompatible spirometry were less likely to receive long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) (P<0.001) or LABA/ICS (P = 0.002) combinations.
Clinical benefits have been demonstrated for ICS/LABA/LAMA combinations.
This study characterized the interaction between the ICS beclomethasone dipropionate, the LABA formoterol fumarate and the LAMA glycopyrronium bromide in human airways.
For the therapy of COPD, there was a clear increase in the prescription of long-acting bronchodilators and a very slight tendency towards a decrease of ICS-containing drugs.
This decrease was so slight that we still have to fear extensive overuse of ICS in COPD.
Bei der COPD belegen die Verordnungszahlen eine deutliche Zunahme für langwirksame Bronchodilatatoren und eine leichte Tendenz zur Abnahme von ICS-haltigen Präparaten.
Letztere fällt aber so gering aus, dass unverändert eine erhebliche Übertherapie mit ICS bei der COPD zu befürchten ist.
The following key points emerged from this analysis: 1) evidence is lacking on the comparison of short-acting vs. long-acting bronchodilators in patients with mild COPD; patients with moderate-to-severe COPD obtain greater benefit from long-acting bronchodilators; 2) the benefits of monotherapy with long-acting antimuscarinic agents (LAMA) and combined therapy with long-acting β2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) are similar, although the latter is associated with a greater risk of pneumonia; 3) LABA/LAMA offer greater benefits in terms of lung function and risk of exacerbation than LABA/ICS (the latter involve an increased risk of pneumonia), 4) LAMA/LABA/ICS have greater therapeutic benefits than LABA/LAMA on the risk of moderate-severe exacerbations.
With regard to the role of eosinophils in guiding the use of ICS, ICS withdrawal must be considered when the initial indication was wrong or no response is elicited, in patients with side effects such as pneumonia, and in patients with a low risk of exacerbation and an eosinophil blood count of <300 cells/μl.
The most recent Global Initiative for Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) guidelines recommend triple therapy (long-acting beta2 agonists [LABA] + long-acting muscarinic antagonists [LAMA] + inhaled corticosteroids [ICS]) only for patients with exacerbations, elevated eosinophils, and without control using a LABA/LAMA or ICS/LABA combination.
Long-term monotherapy with ICS is not currently recommended, but may be considered in association with LABAs in patients with a history of exacerbations and elevated eosinophils in spite of appropriate treatment with long-acting bronchodilators.
However, long-term use of ICS in combination therapy has been associated with adverse effects, even if widely used in routine management for decades.
The available evidence suggests that ICS can be rationally discontinued in patients with stable disease and is not likely to have unfavorable effects on lung function, overall health, or be associated with a greater risk of exacerbations.
Indeed, it is widely accepted that ICS therapy should be limited to a small proportion of patients after careful assessment of the individual risk-benefit profile.
Unfortunately, however, there are no international recommendations that provide specific guidance or a protocol for withdrawal of ICS.
Herein, the available evidence on the use of ICS is reviewed and an easy to use tool is proposed that can provide clinicians with a simple management scheme to guide the most appropriate therapy for management of COPD and use of ICS.
Nevertheless, questions remain regarding the optimal patient population for triple therapy as well as the benefit:risk ratio of ICS treatment.
Preliminary baseline demographics show that 55.9% of patients had experienced ≥2 moderate/severe exacerbations in the previous year, 79.1% were receiving an ICS-containing treatment at study entry, and 59.9% had blood eosinophil counts ≥150 cells/mm3.CONCLUSIONS: ETHOS will provide data on exacerbations, patient-reported outcomes, mortality, and safety in 8572 patients with moderate-to-very severe COPD receiving triple and dual fixed-dose combinations.
For the first time, ICS/LAMA/LABA triple therapy with two different doses of ICS will be compared to dual ICS/LABA and LAMA/LABA therapies.
2020 Jan 21;15:155-156.BACKGROUND: This study aims to compare the effects of single inhaler triple therapy comprised of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs), and long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMAs) with dual therapies comprised of either LABA/LAMA, ICS/LABA or separate ICS/LABA plus LAMA triple therapy.
Single inhaler triple therapy was associated with a significantly lower risk of COPD exacerbation compared with LABA/LAMA (rate ratio, 0.69; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.55 to 0.87, I2 =85%), and ICS/LABA (rate ratio, 0.81; 95% CI 0.73 to 0.89, I2 =29%) dual therapy.
Single inhaler triple therapy led to a more significant improvement in lung function and quality of life compared with LABA/LAMA and ICS/LABA dual therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of single inhaler triple therapy for COPD patients can result in lower rates of moderate or severe exacerbations of COPD as well as improved lung function and quality of life compared with dual therapy with LABA/LAMA or ICS/LABA.DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S200846PMCID: PMC6628970PMID: 31371939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in this work.185.
Individuals were excluded if they were prescribed an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or ICS/LABA two months prior to the index date or were diagnosed with cystic fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, or asthma.
METHODS: This post-hoc, pooled analysis included studies of COPD patients treated with inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β2 agonist (LABA) combinations and comparator arms of ICS, LABA, and/or placebo.
Low body mass index (BMI), exacerbation history, worsening lung function (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease [GOLD] stage), and ICS treatment were identified as factors increasing pneumonia risk.
BMI was the only pneumonia risk factor influenced by ICS treatment, with ICS further increasing risk for those with BMI <25 kg/m2.
Higher exacerbation risk was associated with a history of exacerbations, poorer lung function (GOLD stage), female sex and absence of ICS treatment.
The influence of the other exacerbation risk factors was not modified by ICS treatment.
The only identified risk factor for ICS-induced pneumonia was BMI <25 kg/m2.
Background: Blood eosinophils may predict response to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) where ICS is recommended in patients at high risk of exacerbations.
The proportion of patients who may benefit the most from ICS-based therapy was quantified in a real-world population.
Conclusion: There was no apparent relation between ICS use and eosinophil blood count.
There are differences in the distributions of patients with frequent exacerbations and/or high blood eosinophil counts and the use of ICS in COPD.
However, recent studies have revealed the clinical characteristics of patients who should have second controllers added, such as ICS.
After the assessment, patients with asthmatic characteristics may consider treatment with ICS, while patients with chronic bronchitis may consider treatment with roflumilast and/or macrolide, while patients with chronic heart failure may consider treatment with selective β1-blocker.
Exclusion criteria included an asthma diagnosis in the pre-index period/index date; ICS-, LABA-, or LAMA-containing therapy during the pre-index period; or pharmacy fills for both UMEC/VI and FP/SAL, multiple-inhaler triple therapy, a non-index therapy, or COPD exacerbation on the index date.
Regarding drug use days, the aHRs (95% CIs) were 32.2 (1.79-773.0), 1.85 (1.01-3.39), and 31.1 (3.25-297.80) for those with recent SABAs use, past ICSs use, and past anti-arrythmia drugs use, respectively.
Regarding cumulative drug dose, the aHRs (95% CIs) were 2.12 (1.46-3.10), 3.48 (1.13-10.6), 3.19 (2.04-4.99), 28.1 (1.42-555.7), 2.09 (1.32-3.29), 2.28 (1.53-3.40), and 1.93 (1.36-2.74) for those with a low dose of SABAs, medium dose of SABAs, low dose of SAMAs, low dose of ICSs, medium dose of ICSs, low dose of OSs, and medium dose of OSs, respectively.
Conclusions: Compared with patients without bronchiectasis and COPD, BCOS patients with recent SABAs, past ICSs, and past anti-arrhythmia drugs use; a low or medium SABAs ICSs, and OSs dose; and a low SAMAs dose had a higher risk of HDS.
Among participants with nonaligned regimens, 46% reported underuse, predominately owing to lack of long-acting inhalers in GOLD category D. Of the 54% reporting overuse, 95% were treated with nonindicated ICS-containing regimens.
Nonalignment was driven largely by overuse of ICS regimens in milder disease and lack of long-acting inhalers in severe disease.
Given the current concerns over unnecessary inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use in COPD, we also touch briefly on the use of blood eosinophils as a biomarker for identifying those patients with COPD already using LAMA/LABA therapy for whom the addition of ICS might be of benefit.
Persistence with all COPD therapy regimens was low, particularly for inhaled corticosteroid (ICS; 25.6%) and ICS/twice-daily long-acting beta-agonist (39.4%) regimens.
Papers reporting cases of incident TB in patients with obstructive lung diseases were included; studies without data on ICS use were excluded.
Simultaneous use of oral corticosteroids (OCS) and population attributable fraction (PAF) for TB from ICS exposure were also assessed.
36,351 patients were prescribed ICS, while 147,171 were not.
Any ICS use was associated with an increased risk of TB versus no ICS use (OR=1.46; 95% CI 1.06 to 2.01; p=0.02; I2=96%).
A similar result was also found for current ICS use versus prior/no ICS use, as well as for high, moderate and low ICS dose versus no ICS.
When simultaneous OCS use was evaluated, the independent contribution of ICS was confirmed only in patients not on OCS (OR=1.63; 95% CI 1.05 to 2.52; p=0.03; I2=94%).
Only 0.49% of all TB cases could be attributable to ICS exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the association between ICS and TB, the contribution of this risk factor to the epidemiology of TB seems to be limited.
doi: 10.1177/1753466620905278.Efficacy and safety of revefenacin for nebulization in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease taking concomitant ICS/LABA or LABA: subgroup analysis from phase III trials.
In this prespecified subgroup analysis, we assessed the efficacy and safety of the LAMA revefenacin in patients with COPD taking concomitant LABA, including ICS/LABA (LABA subgroup).METHODS: Efficacy data were obtained from two 12-week, replicate, placebo-controlled trials and safety data were pooled from the 12-week and a 52-week tiotropium-controlled trial.
CONCLUSIONS: Once daily revefenacin for nebulization can be an effective and well-tolerated treatment for patients who require concomitant use of LABA with or without ICS.CLINICALTRIALS.GOV IDENTIFIERS: NCT02512510, NCT02459080, NCT02518139 The reviews of this paper are available via the supplemental material section.
Blood eosinophil counts and smoking status could be important modifiers of treatment response to ICS.
IMPACT was registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02164513.FINDINGS: The magnitude of benefit of regimens containing ICS (fluticasone furoate-umeclidinium-vilanterol n=4151 and fluticasone furoate-vilanterol n=4134) in reducing rates of moderate and severe exacerbations increased in proportion with blood eosinophil count, compared with a non-ICS dual long-acting bronchodilator (umeclidinium-vilanterol n=2070).
INTERPRETATION: This analysis of the IMPACT trial shows that assessment of blood eosinophil count and smoking status has the potential to optimise ICS use in clinical practice in patients with COPD and a history of exacerbations.
Accurate bench-to-bedside plans are needed also in the development of triple combination therapies for asthma and COPD, in which the presence of an ICS in the formulation may further modulate the beneficial interaction between the LABA and the LAMA.DOI: 10.1007/s12325-019-01119-wPMCID: PMC6860506PMID: 31654332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]234.
Blood eosinophil (EOS) levels are associated with the degree of exacerbation reduction with ICS.
Purpose: We investigated whether FEV1 decline differs between patients with and without ICS, stratified by blood EOS level.
Prevalent ICS use and the nearest EOS count to start of follow-up were identified.
Patients were classified at baseline as higher stratum EOS (≥150 cell/µL) on ICS; higher stratum EOS not on ICS; lower stratum EOS (<150 cells/µL) on ICS; and lower stratum EOS not on ICS.
In addition, an incident ICS cohort was used to investigate the rate of FEV1 change by EOS and incident ICS use.
The rate of FEV1 change in prevalent ICS users was slower than non-ICS users (-12.6 mL/year vs -21.1 mL/year; P =0.001).
The rate of FEV1 change in incident ICS users increased (+4.2 mL/year) vs -21.2 mL/year loss in non-ICS users; P<0.001.
In patients with high EOS, incident ICS patients showed an increase in FEV1 (+12 mL/year) compared to non-ICS users whose FEV1 decreased (-20.8 mL/year); P<0.001.
Incident ICS use is associated with an improvement in FEV1 change, however, over time this association is lost.
Conclusion: Regardless of blood EOS level, prevalent ICS use is associated with slower rates of FEV1 decline in COPD.DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S200919PMCID: PMC6536812PMID: 31213788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]Conflict of interest statement: Miss Whittaker reports grants from GlaxoSmithKline, during the conduct of the study; Dr Müllerova was employed by and reported personal fees from GlaxoSmithKline, during the conduct of the study; Dr Jarvis reports grants from European Union and Cystic Fibrosis Trust, outside the submitted work; she also reports grants from GlaxoSmithKline, during the conduct of the study.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the risk of moderate and/or severe exacerbations and all-cause mortality in a large primary care population after withdrawal of ICS compared to continued users stratified by elevated blood eosinophil counts.
Continuous users were subjects who received their most recent ICS prescription within 3 months before the start of an interval.
ICS withdrawals were those who discontinued ICS for more than 3 months.
We evaluated the risk of moderate and/or severe exacerbations and all-cause mortality among subjects with various blood eosinophil thresholds who withdrew from ICS compared to continuous ICS users with elevated blood eosinophil levels using Cox regression analysis adjusted for potential confounders.
Withdrawal of ICS was not associated with an increased risk of moderate-to-severe exacerbations among subjects with absolute blood eosinophil counts ≥0.34 × 109 cells/L [adjusted hazard ratio (adj.
Similarly, withdrawal of ICS was not associated with an increased risk of severe exacerbations among subjects with absolute blood eosinophil ≥0.34 × 109 cells/L (adj.
No increased risk of all-cause mortality was observed among subjects who withdrew from ICS irrespective of elevated absolute or relative blood eosinophil counts.
In a real-world primary care population, we did not observe an increased risk of moderate and/or severe COPD exacerbations or all-cause mortality among subjects with eosinophilia who withdrew their use of ICS.DOI: 10.1080/15412555.2019.1608172PMID: 31117850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]237.
Seventy percent of the patients were male, and 36% were current smokers; their average age was 67.7 ± 9.4 years, and 81% were receiving ICS at the start of the study.
Discordancy was high regardless of whether patients were taking ICS at the beginning of the study period.
CONCLUSIONS: These study data suggest that blood eosinophil levels present significant variability throughout the course of COPD, and a single measurement may therefore not be a reliable predictor of ICS response.
The development of ICS for their anti-inflammatory properties progressed through efforts to increase topical potency and minimise systemic potency and through advances in inhaled delivery technology.
Budesonide is a potent, non-halogenated ICS that was developed in the early 1970s and is now one of the most widely used lung medicines worldwide.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the budget impact of restricting inappropriate inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) use according to the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD)-guidelines indication for ICS use in the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)-population, taking The Netherlands as a reference case.
The current treatment mix included all maintenance treatments including long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), long-acting β2-agonists (LABA), LABA/ICS, LABA/LAMA, and triple therapy (LABA/LAMA/ICS).
We modeled a situation where 25% of patients would use ICS-containing treatments and compared this to the current Dutch situation with 60% ICS use.
In sensitivity analyses, a range of values for absolute ICS reduction (20%-40%), relative risks of exacerbations and pneumonia events, and other input parameters were explored.
RESULTS: Over a period of 5 years, the new treatment mix with Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease guideline recommended ICS, and LABA/LAMA use resulted in potential avoidance of 17 405 exacerbations and 11 984 pneumonias and accompanied savings of €84 million in the base-case scenario.
CONCLUSION: Reducing inappropriate ICS use and increasing use of LABA/LAMA in COPD patients could result in a reduction of exacerbations and pneumonias, corresponding with a reduction in total costs for COPD in The Netherlands.
We evaluated the risk of moderate or severe exacerbations among patients escalating and de-escalating ICS therapy by absolute blood eosinophil thresholds in this systematic review.
In our pooled analysis, we found an overall reduction in risk of moderate or severe exacerbations in patients with absolute blood eosinophil thresholds ranging from ≥ 100 to ≥ 340 cells/µL among patients escalating ICS (RR, 0.77, 95% CI, 0.73-0.81).
For studies evaluating the effects of de-escalation of ICS on moderate to severe exacerbations using blood eosinophil thresholds of ≥ 300 to ≥ 340 cells/µL had an increased risk of moderate or severe exacerbations following the de-escalation of ICS (RR, 1.66, 95% CI, 1.31-2.10).CONCLUSION: This study confirms the validity of the recommended absolute blood eosinophil count thresholds for the escalation and de-escalation of ICS among COPD patients.
Bacterial biomass was associated with anatomic site, but no differences in biomass were observed with age, FEV1 percent predicted (FEV1pp), ICS use, smoking status, or edentulous state.
Shannon index was associated with site (lower nasal diversity than oral and sputum diversity, p<0.001), but not age, ICS use, FEV1pp, tobacco use, or edentulous state.
Clustering was also observed with ICS use (p = 0.029) and edentulous state (p = 0.019), while FEV1pp and current tobacco use were not significant.
In a combined dataset, the frequent exacerbator phenotype, rather than ICS use, was associated with decreased sputum Shannon diversity.
FENO is associated with eosinophil inflammation and the use of ICS in ex-smoking COPD subjects, but not in smoking subjects suggesting that the value of FENO as an inflammatory marker is more limited in smoking subjects.
Sixteen symptomatic, never-smoking asthmatics, aged 75 or over with irreversible airflow limitation despite the use of high-dose ICS plus LABA, were analyzed.
Tio-Res also resulted in statistically significant improvements in respiratory resistance at 5 Hz (R5), respiratory resistance at 20 Hz (R20), R5-R20, low-frequency reactant indices at 5 Hz (X5), resonant frequency (Fres) and low-frequency reactance area (ALX).CONCLUSIONS: Our retrospective study suggests that Tio-Res improves symptoms, pulmonary function, and respiratory impedance in symptomatic asthmatics aged 75 or over with irreversible airflow limitation despite the use of high-dose ICS plus LABA.
Recently, it was reported that ICS treatment increased the risk of pneumonia in COPD patients.
The objective of this paper is to clarify the associations between ICS treatment and the risk of pneumonia in COPD patients.
Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) were incorporatedthat compared ICS with non-ICS treatment on the risk of pneumonia in COPD patients.
Pooled results demonstrated a significantly increased risk of pneumonia with ICS use in COPD patients (RR, 1.59, 95% CI, 1.33-1.90; I2 = 51%).
The results of subgroup analysis based on doses of ICS were consistent with the above.
However, subgroup analyses based on types of ICS revealed that fluticasone therapy was associated with an increased risk of pneumonia but not budesonide.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of ICS increases the risk of pneumonia in patients with COPD.
The above is prominent for fluticasone-containing ICSs but not for budesonide-containing ICSs.
Prescriptions of fixed-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) with long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs) and ICS/LABA/long-acting muscarinic antagonist triple therapy during the baseline period were higher among patients prescribed mepolizumab vs omalizumab (80.4% vs 56.8% and 27.1% vs 14.4%, respectively, both P<0.001).CONCLUSION: In the 12 months prior to initiation of asthma-specific biologics, patients prescribed mepolizumab had a different prevalence of certain comorbidities, higher disease burden, higher HCRU, and higher healthcare costs compared with patients prescribed omalizumab.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize clinical and economic asthma outcomes surrounding the change from a dry powder inhaler (DPI) to a pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) for fixed-dose combination inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β agonist (FDC ICS/LABA) treatment.
Patients with asthma who received an FDC ICS/LABA pMDI for the first time after initially being on FDC ICS/LABA DPI were included.
Patients who changed to pMDIs had significantly less severe exacerbations, acute respiratory events, and lower short-acting β agonist inhaler average daily dose, but higher average ICS daily dose (all P < .05), compared with matched patients remaining on a DPI.
Total costs were similar between patients who changed to pMDI therapy compared with those remaining on a DPI.CONCLUSION: Changing from a DPI to a pMDI for FDC ICS/LABA asthma treatment can be as effective and cost-effective as remaining on a DPI.Copyright © 2018 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology.
The total average cost of COPD was €2647.38/patient and ICS/LABA/LAMA therapy contributed the most (€1541.45).
The regression model showed that, others things being equal, increases in the predicted average logged cost per patient were due to liquid oxygen therapy (+468.31%), three COPD exacerbations during the follow-up (+254.54%), and ICS/LABA or ICS/LABA/LAMA associated therapy (+59.26%).
However, this approach is under scrutiny because of ICS overuse in patients for whom it is not recommended and because of concerns about adverse events, particularly pneumonia, with long-term ICS use.
Evidence suggests ICS may be beneficial in specific patients, namely, those with high blood eosinophil counts (eg, ≥300 cells/µL) or who are at a high risk of exacerbations.
According to the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) 2020 ABCD assessment tool, these patients belong in group D. For these patients, recommended initial treatment includes ICS in combination with long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs) when blood eosinophil counts are ≥300 cells/µL or LABA + long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) when patients are highly symptomatic, that is, with greater dyspnea and/or exercise limitation.
Follow-up treatments for patients with persistent dyspnea and/or exacerbations may include LABA + ICS, LABA + LAMA, or LABA + LAMA + ICS, with use of ICS being guided by blood eosinophil counts.
In this review, differences in the inflammatory mechanism underlying COPD and asthma and the role of ICS treatment in COPD are summarized.
Furthermore, findings from recent clinical trials where use of ICS-based dual or triple therapy in COPD was compared with LABA + LAMA therapy and trials in which ICS withdrawal was evaluated in patients with COPD are reviewed.
Finally, a step-by-step guide for ICS withdrawal in patients who are unlikely to benefit from this treatment is proposed.
Results: After weighing the quality of evidence and balancing the desirable and undesirable effects, the guideline panel made the following recommendations: 1) a strong recommendation for the use of long-acting β2-agonist (LABA)/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) combination therapy over LABA or LAMA monotherapy in patients with COPD and dyspnea or exercise intolerance; 2) a conditional recommendation for the use of triple therapy with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)/LABA/LAMA over dual therapy with LABA/LAMA in patients with COPD and dyspnea or exercise intolerance who have experienced one or more exacerbations in the past year; 3) a conditional recommendation for ICS withdrawal for patients with COPD receiving triple therapy (ICS/LABA/LAMA) if the patient has had no exacerbations in the past year; 4) no recommendation for or against ICS as an additive therapy to long-acting bronchodilators in patients with COPD and blood eosinophilia, except for those patients with a history of one or more exacerbations in the past year requiring antibiotics or oral steroids or hospitalization, for whom ICS is conditionally recommended as an additive therapy; 5) a conditional recommendation against the use of maintenance oral corticosteroids in patients with COPD and a history of severe and frequent exacerbations; and 6) a conditional recommendation for opioid-based therapy in patients with COPD who experience advanced refractory dyspnea despite otherwise optimal therapy.
Overprescription and the high risk of serious ICS-related adverse events make withdrawal of this treatment necessary in patients for whom the treatment-related risks outweigh the expected benefits.
Elaboration of an optimal, universal, user-friendly algorithm for withdrawal of ICS therapy has been identified as an important clinical need.
This article reviews the available evidence on the efficacy, risks, and indications of ICS in COPD, as well as the benefits of ICS treatment withdrawal in patients for whom its use is not recommended by current guidelines.
After discussing proposed approaches to ICS withdrawal published by professional associations and individual authors, we present a new algorithm developed by consensus of an international group of experts in the field of COPD.
With each subsequent update of the GOLD report, the frequency of use of ICS would be significantly (p < 0.001) reduced.
There were no cumulative adverse effects of treatment over time as the incidence and types of TEAEs, were generally similar in the first 24 weeks of the study and after Week 24.CONCLUSIONS: In patients with COPD, both ICS-containing therapies were non-inferior to GFF MDI for the primary BMD and ophthalmological endpoints.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the structural changes in the cerebral cortex tissues, which are characteristic of the severe course of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and ischemic cerebral stroke (ICS).MATERIAL AND METHODS: The autopsy material of the microcirculatory bed of the cerebral cortex from 18 people aged 48-64 years who had died from COPD, ICS, and a concurrence of these conditions underwent histological examination and morphometric analysis.
RESULTS: The state of the brain from the persons who died from ICS was characterized by a decline in the total number of neurons and glial elements, by structural and regional blood flow changes with obvious venous hyperemia, stasis, and red blood cell aggregation in the vessels.
The brain structural features in ICS concurrent with COPD included a double decrease in the numerical density of capillaries, their hyperemia, perivascular edema, and venous plethora, a substantial change in the diameter of non-muscular venules, parenchymal atrophy, and stromal sclerosis, indicating the presence of a chronic process.
CONCLUSION: Patients with ICS in the presence of COPD versus those who died from the isolated variants of these conditions were recorded to have an obvious decrease in the numerical density of capillaries, their hyperemia, and a pronounced change in the structure of the cerebral vein wall, which is a consequence of multisystem processes associated with COPD.Publisher: Цель исследования - определить изменения в структуре ткани коры больших полушарий, характерные для тяжелого течения хронической обструктивной болезни легких (ХОБЛ) и ишемического инсульта (ИИ) головного мозга.
Yet large numbers of patients worldwide are currently treated with ICS-containing regimens.
We wished to determine in routine clinical practice how common ICS withdrawal is and the differences in health outcomes between patients managed on ICS-containing and non-ICS containing regimens.
Patients were grouped into three treatment regimens: long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), LABA and long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and triple therapy (LABA, LAMA and ICS).
Annual incidence of ICS withdrawal was measured.
Multivariable Poisson regression was used to assess the association of exacerbations and hospitalised pneumonia between the ICS-containing regimens (LABA-ICS and triple therapy) and patients prescribed LABA-LAMA.RESULTS: Of 117,046 patients, around three-quarters were prescribed ICS-containing inhalers but ICS withdrawal occurred annually in only approximately 2-3% of patients.
Exacerbations in the past year, but not a past history of pneumonia, were associated with ICS withdrawal.
There was no difference in the pneumonia risk (LABA-ICS adjusted IRR=0.96 (95% CI 0.71-1.31), triple adjusted IRR=1.16 (95% CI 0.87-1.57)).CONCLUSION: Use of ICS-containing inhaled medication is prevalent across the UK while ICS withdrawal from established treatment was relatively uncommon.
Exacerbations and pneumonia risk was similar between the ICS-containing and non-ICS containing treatment regimens.
We identified four major components of COPD treatment based on country specifics: active case finding and early diagnosis in high-risk population, therapeutic algorithm for initiation and escalation of therapy that is simple and easy to use in real-life practice, de-escalation of ICS in low-risk non-exacerbators, and individual choice of inhaler device based on patients' ability and preferences.
We conducted two replicate trials comparing single- with multiple-inhaler ICS/LAMA/LABA combination in COPD.METHODS: 207608 and 207609 were Phase IV, 12-week, randomized, double-blind, triple-dummy non-inferiority trials comparing once-daily fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol (FF/UMEC/VI) 100/62.5/25 μg via Ellipta inhaler, with twice-daily budesonide/formoterol (BUD/FOR) 400/12 μg via metered-dose inhaler plus once-daily tiotropium (TIO) 18 μg via HandiHaler.
   Can Respir J. 2019 Oct 8;2019:4897045.The most recent British Thoracic Society/Intensive Care Society (BTS/ICS) guidelines on the use of noninvasive ventilation (NIV) in acute hypercapnic respiratory failure (AHRF) suggest to maximize NIV use in the first 24 hours and to perform a slow tapering.
Treatment with ICS is, however, associated with side effects such as oropharyngeal candidiasis, skin thinning or easy bruising and pneumonia.
The aim of this review was to investigate when to use ICS in COPD and to compare the effectiveness and safety of different ICSs.
Studies comparing the effect of ICS/LABA and LABA/LAMA on exacerbations have shown divergent results, whereas most studies comparing ICS/LABA/LAMA (triple therapy) with LABA/LAMA have reported fewer exacerbations with triple therapy.
Several investigations have shown that the number of eosinophils in blood predicts whether a patient will benefit from treatment with ICS.
There is also data indicating that ICS has a small but significant positive effect on lung function decline and decrease mortality.
Studies comparing the effect and safety of other ICSs such as fluticasone furoate and beclomethasone are too few to draw firm conclusions from.
In conclusion, ICS together with LABA or LABA/LAMA reduces the risk of exacerbations in COPD.
The indication of using ICS in COPD is stronger if the patient has increased blood eosinophils levels.
There are data indicating that the choice of ICS matters, with studies showing a better effect-safety profile with budesonide compared to fluticasone propionate whereas it is not possible to make benefit-risk comparisons between the other licensed ICSs.2020 Journal of Thoracic Disease.
Epub 2019 Jun 28.[Therapy control of COPD by Eosinophilic Granulocytes?].[Article in German]Magnussen H.Symptomatic patients with COPD reporting about repeated exacerbations in their history (group D according to GOLD recommendations) are treated with dual bronchodilation (LAMA/LABA) with potential benefits from additional ICS.
> 300 cells/µL or 4 % of eosinophils in peripheral blood are recommended to treat the patients with additional ICS.
Thus, ICS therapy should be restricted to a minority of patients with COPD.
The aHRs (95% CIs) for statin use with ICSs or OSs were 0.32 (0.13-0.78) and 0.37 (0.24-0.57), respectively.
CONCLUSION: The ACOS cohort with statin use had lower risks of anxiety and depression, regardless of age, sex, commodities, or ICSs and OSs.
The incidences of anxiety and depression were relatively low among users of statins with ICSs or OSs in the ACOS cohort.
EXPERT OPINION: It is still unclear whether and when addition of an ICS to the LAMA/LABA combination provides real additional clinical value, regardless of a preventive effect on exacerbations.
There are many doubts about the value of the blood eosinophil count as a valid biomarker to predict AECOPD risk and the clinical response to ICS, also because no association was found in observational studies.
In any case, before starting a therapy involving ICS, the risk factors for the development of pneumonia must always be evaluated.
Adding a LAMA to an ICS/LABA combination seems to be less problematic.
Many physicians are concerned about whether individuals positive for SARS-CoV-2 and taking ICS should continue them or stop them, given that ICS are often regarded as immunosuppressive.
Do ICS modify this risk, either increasing or decreasing it?
Do ICS influence the clinical course of COVID-19? (
Whether ICS modify the risk of developing COVID-19 or the clinical course of COVID-19 in people who do not have lung disease should also be considered (figure 1).DOI: 10.1183/13993003.01009-2020PMCID: PMC7236828PMID: 32341100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: D. Singh reports grants and personal fees from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, Glenmark, Menarini, Mundipharma, Novartis, Pfizer, Pulmatrix, Theravance and Verona, personal fees from Cipla, Genentech, GlaxoSmithKline, Peptinnovate and Teva, outside the submitted work.
In the last decade many new and generic inhalative bronchodilators were launched at the German market, both monotherapies and fixed dose double bronchodilator (LABA/LAMA, beta adrenergic and antimuscarinic) or LABA and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and triple (LABA/LAMA/ICS) combinations.
According to two surveys in 2015 among respiratory physicians we expected a high proportion of patients receiving duplicate prescriptions, e. g. a fixed dose new LABA/LAMA combination in addition to an existing ICS/LABA fixed dose combination.
In den letzten 10 Jahren wurden viele neue und generische inhalative Bronchodilatatoren auf den deutschen Markt eingeführt, sowohl Monotherapien als auch Fixdosis-Kombinationen aus 2 Bronchodilatatoren (LABA/LAMA, beta-Adrenergikum und Anticholinergikum) oder LABA und inhalatives Kortikosteroid- (ICS) und Triple-Kombinationen (LABA/LAMA/ICS).
Laut 2 Umfragen, die unter Lungenfachärzten im Jahr 2015 durchgeführt wurden, erwarteten wir einen hohen Anteil von Patienten, die doppelte Verschreibungen erhielten, z. B. eine neue LABA/LAMA-Kombination zusätzlich zu einer bestehenden ICS/LABA-Therapie.
Suzuki T(1), Fairburn-Beech J(2), Sato K(1), Kaise T(1).Author information:(1)Value Evidence Outcomes Department, Japan Development Division, GlaxoSmithKline K.K, Tokyo, Japan.(2)Value Evidence and Outcomes Department, GlaxoSmithKline, London, UK.Objectives: To help optimize triple therapy use, treatment patterns and disease burden were investigated in patients in Japan with persistent asthma who initiated multi-inhaler triple therapy (inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β2-agonist/long-acting muscarinic antagonist; ICS/LABA/LAMA).Methods: This retrospective, observational cohort study using health insurance claims data included adults with persistent asthma who initiated triple therapy in 2016.
Patients who were prescribed ICS/LABA in 2016 were included as an ICS/LABA-matched cohort.
Results: For patients with asthma only in the triple therapy and ICS/LABA cohorts, baseline demographics were similar.
A higher proportion of the triple-therapy cohort than the ICS/LABA cohort was receiving high-dose ICS at index (68.2% and 27.6%, respectively), and had experienced an exacerbation in the last year (64.0% and 29.4%, respectively).
Similar trends were seen in patients with ACO in the triple-therapy and ICS/LABA cohorts.
The aHR (95% CI) for COPD cohort with ICSs use was 1.34 (0.98, 1.83); that for COPD with asthma cohort without ICSs use was 2.46 (2.20, 2.76); and that for COPD with asthma cohort with ICSs use was 2.32 (1.99, 2.72).
CONCLUSIONS: The COPD with asthma cohort had a higher risk of incident pneumonia, regardless of age, sex, comorbidities, and ICSs or OSs use.
COPD cohort with ICSs use did not have a notable risk of incident pneumonia.
The COPD with asthma cohort had a higher risk of incident pneumonia, even without ICSs/OSs use.
There are no data available to show whether treatment duration of ICS in patients with NAEB is related to recurrence.
We aim to evaluate the effect of different duration of treatment with ICS on relapse of NAEB.METHODS: A total of 101 patients with NAEB were recruited to the open label, randomized, parallel-group trial.
RESULTS: ICS significantly decreased cough VAS, CSS, and sputum eosinophilia among these groups.
The other 2 evaluated tiotropium Respimat 2.5 or 5 μg once daily, salmeterol 50 μg twice daily, or placebo, all added to medium-dose ICS (moderate asthma).
CONCLUSIONS: Once-daily tiotropium Respimat add-on to ICS or ICS/long-acting β2-agonist therapy was effective and well tolerated in patients with asthma independent of age.
Following triple therapy initiation, 44% of patients discontinued ICS within 6 months.
Overall, 16-19% of patients received TIO monotherapy and had high baseline exacerbation rates, suggesting that additional ICS-containing medication may be beneficial.
Patients initiating triple therapy were among the most severe, with high baseline exacerbation rates and rescue medication use, and had high post-treatment ICS discontinuation rates, suggesting unmet needs in this population.
We evaluated the risk of moderate-to-severe exacerbations, severe exacerbations and all-cause mortality among patients with COPD currently exposed to Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) stratified by CRP levels compared to never ICS users with low CRP levels.
We evaluated the risk of moderate-to-severe exacerbations, severe exacerbations and all-cause mortality among ICS users stratified by CRP levels.
Among current or never ICS with elevated CRP levels we found, no significantly reduced risk of moderate-to-severe or severe exacerbations.
For patients currently exposed ICS with CRP levels ≥8 mg/L there was no reduced risk of moderate-to-severe exacerbations (adjusted hazard ratio [adj.
However, we found an increased risk of all-cause mortality among COPD patients with CRP levels ≥8 mg/L irrespective of ICS exposure.
CONCLUSION: We did not find a reduced risk of moderate and/or severe COPD exacerbations among COPD patients with varying CRP levels currently exposed to ICS.
Combination of ICS-long acting beta agonists (LABA) were available in 0-14.3% of facilities surveyed.
Affordability of SABA and ICS varied greatly, ranging from < 2 to 107 days' wages while ICS-LABA combinations, SAMA and oral theophylline plus leukotriene receptor antagonists cost 6.4-17.1, 13.7 and 6.9 days' wages respectively.
At least four fixed-dose ICS/LABA combinations are available, including budesonide/formoterol, beclomethasone/formoterol, fluticasone/vilanterol and fluticasone/salmeterol, but there is little guidance for clinicians on which of these combinations to prescribe.
Areas covered: The aim of this in-depth review was to identify studies that compared budesonide/formoterol with the other ICS/LABA combinations and assess the data on exacerbations, safety, and patient quality of life.
Our findings highlight the lack of prospective, randomized, controlled trials comparing LABA/ICS combinations in the treatment of COPD as only two such studies were identified.
However, current evidence suggests that the effects of budesonide/formoterol on reducing exacerbations and improving quality of life may be similar to, or more marked than, those of other LABA/ICS combinations in COPD and, compared with the other LABA/ICS combinations, budesonide/formoterol may be associated with a lower incidence of serious pneumonia events and oral candidiasis.
Expert opinion: To better guide clinicians in selecting between the available ICS/LABA, robust meta-analyses and well-designed head-to-head clinical trials are urgently needed.
RESULTS: The study analyzed a total of 160 uncontrolled asthmatics regardless of low- or medium-to-high-dose ICS plus LABA.
Our pre-clinical data indicate a utility for also adding ICS in non-type 2 inflammatory COPD phenotypes to bronchodilator therapy.
Reduced risk of clinically important deteriorations by ICS in COPD is eosinophil dependent: a pooled post-hoc analysis.
In patients with symptomatic COPD, severe/very severe airflow limitation, and a history of one moderate (and no severe) exacerbation, ICS-containing triple therapy significantly reduces exacerbation risk overall versus single or double maintenance therapy http://ow.ly/VgJC30o9pXCIn chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), exacerbation history is the strongest predictor of future exacerbation risk [1, 2].
Over time, 3 major changes were observed: (1) an increase in treatment category "No IMT", mostly for GOLD 1 or GOLD A categories (GOLD A: from 19.1% at T1 to 41.2% at T4); (2) an increase in treatment category "2 LABDs" for GOLD 2 to 4 and GOLD A to D categories (GOLD B: from 15.4% to 29.7%); (3) a decrease in ICS use ("1 LABD + ICS" or "2 LABDs + ICS"), mostly for GOLD 1 to 3 and GOLD A categories (GOLD A, 2 LABDs + ICS: from 35.3% to 11.1%).CONCLUSION: Changes over time in therapeutic profiles suggest that new evidence from scientific publications and recommendations may have had a rapid impact on clinical practice.
This study evaluated exacerbations, health resource utilization (HRU), and costs among Medicare beneficiaries with COPD on handheld ICS+LABA who switched to nebulized arformoterol (ARF) or continued ICS+LABA following a respiratory event.
METHODS: Using Medicare claims, we identified beneficiaries with COPD (international classification of disease, 9th revision, clinical modification [ICD-9-CM] 490-492.xx, 494.xx, 496.xx) between 2010-2014 who had ≥ 1 year of continuous enrollment in Parts A, B, and D; ≥ 2 COPD-related outpatient visits ≥ 30 days apart or ≥ 1 hospitalization(s); ICS+LABA use 90-days before ARF initiation; and a respiratory event (COPD-related hospitalization or emergency department [ED] visit < 30 days before ARF initiation).
Using propensity scores, 423 beneficiaries who switched to ARF were matched to 423 beneficiaries who continued on handheld ICS+LABA (controls).
ARF accounted for 55% ($886.63) of DME costs, with the remaining costs attributed to oxygen therapy ($428.10) and nebulized corticosteroids ($590.85).CONCLUSIONS: Switching from handheld ICS+LABA to nebulized ARF resulted in fewer COPD exacerbations among Medicare beneficiaries.
In 18,666 (56.3%) patients starting medication within 30 days of the incident event (2010: 52.7%; 2016: 56.6%; p=0.002), SABA (60.5%) and LABA/ICS (41.6%) were most commonly used.
The proportion of patients who initiated any ICS was similar (hospital: 56.7%; outpatient: 55.7%; p=0.194) and decreased in both settings over time (p<0.001).
While SABA and LABA/ICS are most commonly used, ICS utilization decreases over time.
The Effect of ICS Withdrawal and Baseline Inhaled Treatment on Exacerbations in the IMPACT Study: A Randomized, Double-blind Multicenter Trial.
METHODS: Exacerbations and change from baseline in trough forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) and St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) were analyzed by prior ICS use.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: FF/UMEC/VI significantly reduced annual moderate/severe exacerbation rate versus UMEC/VI in prior ICS users (29% reduction; p<0.001), but only a numerical reduction was seen among prior ICS non-users (12% reduction; p=0.115).
To minimize impact from ICS withdrawal, in an analysis excluding the first 30 days, FF/UMEC/VI continued to significantly reduce annual on-treatment moderate/severe exacerbation rate (19%; p<0.001) versus UMEC/VI.
Benefit of FF/UMEC/VI versus UMEC/VI was seen for severe exacerbation rates, regardless of prior ICS use (prior ICS users: 35% reduction, p<0.001; non-ICS users: 35% reduction, p=0.018) and overall when excluding the first 30 days (29%, p<0.001).
Improvements from baseline with FF/UMEC/VI versus UMEC/VI were also maintained throughout the study for both trough FEV1 and SGRQ regardless of prior ICS use.
CONCLUSIONS: These data support important treatment effects from FF/UMEC/VI combination therapy on exacerbation reduction, lung function and quality of life that do not appear to be related to abrupt ICS withdrawal.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The first group of COPD patients (n = 30; mild (n = 3), moderate (n = 6), severe (n = 7), very severe (n = 14) as per GOLD II & III criteria was prescribed the standard therapy, a combination of (i) short acting anti-muscarinic agent (SAMA) + short acting β2 agonist (SABA) inhaled and (ii) corticosteroid inhaled (ICS) + long acting β2 agonist (LABA) (iii) ICS + LABA + LAMA.
Paneroni M(1), Ambrosino N(2), Simonelli C(1), Bertacchini L(1), Venturelli M(3), Vitacca M(1).Author information:(1)Respiratory Rehabilitation Division, ICS Maugeri SPA SB, Institute of Lumezzane, IRCCS, Brescia, Italy.(2)Respiratory Rehabilitation Division, ICS Maugeri SPA SB, Institute of Montescano, IRCCS, Pavia, Italy.(3)Department of Neuroscience, Biomedicine and Movement Sciences, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
Data sources: A systematic search was conducted using the PubMed, EMBASE, and Web of Science databases up to June 2018.Study selections: Only studies comparing the safety and effectiveness of LABA and/or ICS in patients with asthma-COPD overlap were included.
Three CS results show LABA was associated with decreased risk of myocardial infarction (combined RR: 0.80, 95% CI 0.74-0.87) versus non-LABA use; ICS/LABA was associated with a lower risk of death or hospitalization (combined RR: 0.82, 95% CI 0.75-0.90) compared to no use.
Results from RCTs, no clear difference in lung function decline in FEV1 was found (combined mean difference: 0.08, 95% CI 0.15-0.32) in patients receiving ICS and/or LABA compared to placebo.
Conclusions: Among patients with asthma-COPD overlap, LABA is associated with decreased risk of myocardial infarction; and the combination therapy of ICS/LABA appears to reduce the risk of death or hospitalization.
NMR-based metabolomics of different biofluids distinguishes across inhaled pharmacotherapies, provides complementary information on the effects of an extrafine ICS/LABA FDC on metabolic fingerprints in COPD patients, and might be useful for elucidating the ICS mechanism of action.. 1.
Conclusions: The ACO cohort with statin use exhibited lower risk of hepatic, renal, and heart failure than any other cohort, regardless of age, sex, comorbidities, or ICS or OS use.
Regarding the combined use of statins and ICS, the risks of hepatic failure were lower.
Abbreviations: 5-LOi: 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor; ACOS: asthma - COPD overlap syndrome; B2AR: Beta2 adrenergic receptors; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; cGMP: cyclic guanosine monophosphate; CI: confidence interval; COPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; CRS : chronic rhinosinusitis; cys-LT: cysteinyl leukotrienes; DPI: dry powder inhaler; EMA: European Medicines Agency; FDA: US Food and Drug Administration; FDC: fixed-dose combination; FeNO: exhaled nitric oxide; FEV1: forced expiratory volume in one second; FVC: forced vital capacity; GM-CSF: granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor; ICS : inhaled corticosteroids; IL: interleukin; ILC2: Type 2 innate lymphoid cells; IP3: Inositol triphosphate; IRR: incidence rate ratio; KOLD: Korean Obstructive Lung Disease; LABA: long-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; LAMA: long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; LRA: leukotriene receptor antagonist; LT: leukotrienes; MDI: metered-dose inhalers; MN: M-subtype muscarinic receptors; MRA: muscarinic receptor antagonist; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NEB: nebulization; OR: odds ratio; PDE: phosphodiesterase; PEFR: peak expiratory flow rate; PGD2: prostaglandin D2; PRN: as needed; RR: risk ratio; SABA: short-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; SAMA: short-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; SDMI: spring-driven mist inhaler; Th1: T helper cell 1 lymphocyte; Th2: T helper cell 2 lymphocytes; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor alpha; US : United States.
When subdividing statin users and statin nonusers into groups according to concomitant treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) the following HRs were found: 0.75 (0.58-0.98) for ICS only; 0.69 (0.36-1.3) for statins only; and 0.39 (0.22-0.67) for the combined treatment with statin and ICS compared with no such treatment.
The ICS/LABA/LAMA combination reduced the risk of exacerbation (relative risk 0.70, 95% CI 0.53-0.94) and improved trough forced expiratory volume in 1 s (mean difference in mL +37.94, 95% CI 18.83-53.89) versus LABA/LAMA combination therapy.
While ∼38 patients had to be treated for 1 year with ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy to prevent one exacerbation compared to LABA/LAMA combination therapy, the number needed to treat (NNT) was ∼21 when compared to single long-acting bronchodilator therapy.
The person-based NNT per year of ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy versus LABA/LAMA combination therapy was significantly (p<0.05) lower in patients with eosinophil counts ≥300 cells·µL-1 (NNT value: 8.58) than in those with counts <300 cells·µL-1 (NNT value: 46.28).
The risk of pneumonia did not differ between ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy and its comparators.
This meta-analysis suggests that patients on single long-acting bronchodilator therapy or LABA/LAMA combination therapy, who still have exacerbations and have blood eosinophil counts ≥300 cells·µL-1, could benefit from ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the efficacy and safety of available formulations from four different groups of inhalers (i.e. LABA/LAMA combination, LABA/ICS combination, LAMA and LABA) in people with moderate to severe COPD.
There is evidence that the LABA/LAMA combination decreases moderate to severe exacerbations compared to LABA/ICS combination, LAMA, and LABA in the high-risk population (network hazard ratios (HRs) 0.86 (95% credible interval (CrI) 0.76 to 0.99), 0.87 (95% CrI 0.78 to 0.99), and 0.70 (95% CrI 0.61 to 0.8) respectively), and that LAMA decreases moderate to severe exacerbations compared to LABA in the high- and low-risk populations (network HR 0.80 (95% CrI 0.71 to 0.88) and 0.87 (95% CrI 0.78 to 0.97), respectively).
There is evidence that the LABA/LAMA combination reduces severe exacerbations compared to LABA/ICS combination and LABA in the high-risk population (network HR 0.78 (95% CrI 0.64 to 0.93) and 0.64 (95% CrI 0.51 to 0.81), respectively).There was a general trend towards a greater improvement in symptom and quality-of-life scores with the combination therapies compared to monotherapies, and the combination therapies were generally ranked higher than monotherapies.
The LABA/ICS combination was the lowest ranked in pneumonia serious adverse events (SAEs) in both populations.
There is evidence that the LABA/ICS combination increases the odds of pneumonia compared to LAMA/LABA combination, LAMA and LABA (network ORs: 1.69 (95% CrI 1.20 to 2.44), 1.78 (95% CrI 1.33 to 2.39), and 1.50 (95% CrI 1.17 to 1.92) in the high-risk population and network or pairwise OR: 2.33 (95% CI 1.03 to 5.26), 2.02 (95% CrI 1.16 to 3.72), and 1.93 (95% CrI 1.29 to 3.22) in the low-risk population respectively).
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether intensified combination therapy with ICS/LABA, at the onset of URTI symptoms, decreases the incidence of COPD exacerbation occurring within 21 days of the URTI.METHODS: A total of 450 patients with stable, moderate to very severe COPD, were included in this investigator-initiated and -driven, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study.
At inclusion, patients were assigned to open-labeled low-maintenance dose ICS/LABA.
Each patient was randomized either to intensified-dose ICS/LABA or placebo and instructed to start using this medication only in case of a URTI, at the onset of symptoms, twice daily, for 10 days.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The incidence of any exacerbation following a URTI was not significantly decreased in the ICS/LABA group, as compared with placebo (14.6% vs. 16.2%; hazard ratio, 0.77; 95% confidence interval, 0.46-1.33; P = 0.321) but the risk of severe exacerbation was decreased by 72% (hazard ratio, 0.28; 95% confidence interval, 0.11-0.74%; P = 0.010).
CONCLUSIONS: Intensified combination therapy with ICS/LABA for 10 days at URTI onset did not decrease the incidence of any COPD exacerbation but prevented severe exacerbation.
This review presents the clinical evidence that led to the approval of these triple therapies, discusses the role of ICS in patients with COPD, and presents data on the relative efficacy of "fixed triple" (ICS/LAMA/LABA) therapy vs LAMA, ICS/LABA, and LAMA/LABA combinations, and summarizes studies in which ICS/LABAs were combined with LAMAs to form "open triple" combinations.
Overall, compared to LAMA, ICS/LABA, or LAMA/LABA, triple therapy decreased the risk of exacerbations and improved lung function and health status, with a favorable benefit-to-harm ratio.
Triple therapy was associated with a significantly reduced rate of moderate or severe exacerbations compared with LAMA monotherapy (rate ratio 0.71, 95% confidence interval 0.60 to 0.85), LAMA and LABA (0.78, 0.70 to 0.88), and ICS and LABA (0.77, 0.66 to 0.91).
2019 May 1;9(4):e009183corr1.OBJECTIVE: To compare the safety and effectiveness of long-acting β-antagonists (LABA), long-acting antimuscarinic agents (LAMA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) for managing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).SETTING: Systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA).PARTICIPANTS: 208 randomised clinical trials (RCTs) including 134,692 adults with COPD.INTERVENTIONS: LABA, LAMA and/or ICS, alone or in combination, versus each other or placebo.
There is evidence that triple combination ICS/LABA/LAMA with different inhalers improves lung function, symptoms, and health status and reduces exacerbations.
Two large pivotal studies showed that this extrafine fixed ICS/LABA/LAMA triple combination is superior to fixed ICS/LABA combined therapy and also superior to the LAMA tiotropium in terms of lung function and exacerbation prevention in COPD patients at risk of exacerbation.
PURPOSE: To assess the comparative efficacy of short-acting muscarinic antagonists (SAMAs), long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), LAMA in combination with long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs; LAMA/LABAs) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in combination with LABA (ICS/LABAs) for the maintenance treatment of COPD.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We systematically reviewed 74 randomized controlled trials (74,832 participants) published up to 15 November 2017, which compared any of the interventions (SAMA [ipratropium], LAMA [aclidinium, glycopyrronium, tiotropium, umeclidinium], LAMA/LABA [aclidinium/formoterol, indacaterol/glycopyrronium, tiotropium/olodaterol, umeclidinium/vilanterol] and ICS/LABA [fluticasone/vilanterol, budesonide/formoterol, salmeterol/fluticasone]) with each other or with placebo.
LAMAs, LAMA/LABAs and ICS/LABAs led to a significantly greater improvement in trough FEV1 compared with placebo and SAMA monotherapy at weeks 12 and 24.
All LAMA/LABAs, except aclidinium/formoterol, were statistically significantly better than LAMA monotherapy and ICS/LABAs in improving trough FEV1.
We included studies that allowed participants to continue using their ICS during the trial as long as the ICS was not part of the randomised treatment.
Concomitant inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use was permitted in all of the included studies (where stated); across the included studies, between 28% to 58% of participants were using ICS at baseline.
We examined prescriptions filled for LABDs with or without ICSs (LABDs±ICSs) within 90 days prior to and 30 days after hospitalization.
This review evaluates the evidence available on the safety of existing LAMAs alone or in combination with LABAs and ICS in patients with COPD.DOI: 10.1080/00325481.2017.1317575PMID: 28395575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]21.
Agent-specific NP rates were: 58.5% for LABA, 47.9% for LAMA, 78.0% for ICS, and 69.4% for single-device LABA/ICS combination treatment.
During periods of general treatment continuation, the mean MPR/NA rates were 85.0%/30.1% (patient level across all agents), 89.3%/28.2% (LABA), 92.1%/16.2% (LAMA), 84.2%/43.8% (ICS) and 84.1%/42.8% (LABA/ICS combination).
In comparison to LABA therapy, LAMA therapy was less likely to be associated with early NP, whereas patients who initiated ICS therapy or a single-device LABA/ICS combination therapy faced a higher NP risk.
Triple therapy is recommended by the Global initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) for patients who experience recurrent exacerbations despite treatment with either a dual bronchodilator (preferred initial therapy) or LABA/ICS combination (alternative initial therapy).
Although there is evidence for the greater efficacy of triple therapy compared with LABA/ICS and LAMA monotherapy with regards to improved lung function, health status, and exacerbation rate, the efficacy of triple therapy when compared with dual bronchodilation (LABA/LAMA) is as yet unknown.
As ICS use is associated with an increased risk of developing pneumonia, it is important to assess the risk/benefit ratio of triple therapy on an individual basis, and identify patients most likely to benefit.
The role of elevated blood eosinophils as a biomarker for the identification of candidates for ICS treatment is currently debated, and further prospective evidence is required.
The potential for treating patients who experience further exacerbations on dual bronchodilation according to phenotype is also considered, as well as withdrawal of ICS from triple therapy in patients who are unlikely to benefit.
TIO/OLO significantly improved trough FEV1 from baseline to week 12 versus TIO, OLO and LABA/ICS (0.06 L, 0.09 L and between 0.04 and 0.05 L, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with TIO/OLO provided significant improvements in lung function versus mono-components and LABA/ICS with more patients achieving significant improvements in dyspnea and health status.
The most commonly initiated regimen was a LABA with an ICS.
ICS use was inconsistent with international guidelines: over- and under-treatment occurred in patients with infrequent and frequent exacerbations, respectively, and ICS monotherapy was common.
CONCLUSION: In this nationwide study, patterns of use of LABAs, LAMAs and ICSs were complex and often did not comply with treatment guidelines.
Randomized clinical trials of at least 12 weeks of duration comparing LABA/LAMA and LABA/ICS combinations were included.
LABA/LAMA was associated with greater improvement in FEV1 than LABA/ICS (mean difference (MD) 0.09L, 95%confidence interval (CI) 0.07 to 0.11L; high certainty).
LABA/LAMA was associated with an absolute reduction of approximately 8% in the incidence of pneumonia compared with LABA/ICS (risk ratio 0.41, 95%CI 0.18 to 0.94; moderate certainty).
Our findings support the use of dual long-acting bronchodilators for patients with advanced COPD but without frequent exacerbations given the excess risk of pneumonia with LABA/ICS.DOI: 10.3109/15412555.2016.1170799PMID: 27148815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]39.
Univariate linear regression analysis revealed that there was a significant negative association of irisin with age-adjusted Charlson score (p = 0.003) and a positive association of irisin with 6-min walking distance (6MWD) (p = 0.018) and treatment with LAMA (p = 0.004) but not with LABA or ICS.
The most common prescription pathway to TT was LABA plus ICS.
It was observed that exacerbation history did influence the pathway of LABA plus ICS to TT.CONCLUSION: Real life UK prescription data demonstrates the inappropriate prescribing of TT and confirms that starting patients on ICS plus LABA results in the inevitable drift to overuse of TT.
LABA/LAMA FDCs significantly improved lung function (FEV1) at 12 weeks compared with LABA or LAMA or LABA/ICS.
Only the LABA/LAMA FDC indacaterol/glycopyrronium has shown superiority vs LAMA and LABA/ICS for reducing exacerbation rates, while olodaterol/tiotropium and indacaterol/glycopyrronium have been shown to improve ET and IC vs the active comparators.
So far, indacaterol/glycopyrronium is the LABA/LAMA FDC that has the strongest evidence for superiority vs LABA, LAMA, and LABA/ICS FDCs across the evaluated outcomes.
However, the benefits and risks of adding ICS to combination LABA/LAMA inhalers remains unclear.
We also searched ClinicalTrials.gov, World Health Organisation (WHO) trials portal and pharmaceutical company clinical trials' databases up to 7 Janurary 2016.SELECTION CRITERIA: We included parallel-group, randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of three weeks' duration or longer which compared treatment of stable COPD with ICS in addition to combination LABA/LAMA inhalers against combination LABA/LAMA inhalers alone.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There are currently no studies published assessing the effect of ICS in addition to combination LABA/LAMA inhalers for the treatment of stable COPD.
As combination LABA/LAMA inhalers are now widely available, there is a need for well-designed RCTs to investigate whether ICS provides any added therapeutic benefit.
Based on currently available data on adding inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) to a LABA, ICS might be added to a LABA/LAMA combination in exacerbating patients who have an asthma-COPD overlap syndrome or high blood eosinophil counts, while in exacerbators with chronic bronchitis, consideration should be given to treating with a phosphodiesterase (PDE)-4 inhibitor (roflumilast) or high-dose mucolytic agents.
Studies were included if they compared any of the following treatments versus any other: long-acting beta2-agonists (LABAs; formoterol, indacaterol, salmeterol); long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs; aclidinium, glycopyrronium, tiotropium); inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs; budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone); combination long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (LABA/ICS) (formoterol/budesonide, formoterol/mometasone, salmeterol/fluticasone); and placebo.
We assumed that treatment effects were similar within treatment classes (LAMA, LABA, ICS, LABA/ICS).
Combination LABA/ICS was the highest ranked intervention, with a mean improvement over placebo of -3.89 units at six months (95% credible interval (CrI) -4.70 to -2.97) and -3.60 at 12 months (95% CrI -4.63 to -2.34).
Class differences between LABA, LAMA and ICS were less prominent at 12 months.
As for SGRQ, combination LABA/ICS was the highest ranked class, with a mean improvement over placebo of 133.3 mL at six months (95% CrI 100.6 to 164.0) and slightly less at 12 months (mean difference (MD) 100, 95% CrI 55.5 to 140.1).
LAMAs (MD 103.5, 95% CrI 81.8 to 124.9) and LABAs (MD 99.4, 95% CrI 72.0 to 127.8) showed roughly equivalent results at six months, and ICSs were the fourth ranked class (MD 65.4, 95% CrI 33.1 to 96.9).
Quality of life and lung function were improved most on combination inhalers (LABA and ICS) and least on ICS alone at 6 and at 12 months.
The network has demonstrated the benefit of ICS when added to LABA for these outcomes in participants who largely had an FEV1 that was less than 50% predicted, but the additional expense of combination inhalers and any potential for increased adverse events (which has been established by other reviews) require consideration.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All English-language randomized-controlled trials comparing LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA combination inhaler therapy were evaluated.
DATA SYNTHESIS: A total of 10 randomized controlled trials have reviewed the use of LAMA/LABA compared with ICS/LABA therapy for COPD maintenance therapy.
Results of clinical trials that evaluated LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA maintenance therapy demonstrated superior improvements in pulmonary function tests via spirometry and improved clinical outcomes with LAMA/LABA therapy, specifically reduction in COPD exacerbation rates.
The safety of LAMA/LABA combination therapy also is favorable compared with ICS/LABA combination therapy because of the increased infection risk with ICS therapy.
LAMA/LABA combination therapy has demonstrated superior improvements in pulmonary function and reduction in COPD exacerbation rates compared with ICS/LABA.
There were 623 who were exposed to long-acting bronchodilators only and 3,510 to long-acting bronchodilators plus ICS.
Compared with controls taking only long-acting bronchodilators either alone or in combination, all-cause mortality was reduced in patients taking long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) + ICS as dual therapy: adjusted hazard ratio 0.62 (95% CI 0.45-0.85), but not by long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) + ICS: adjusted hazard ratio 1.02 (95% CI 0.80-1.31).
Cardiovascular mortality was not reduced by dual therapy with either LABA or LAMA and concomitant ICS exposure.
All-cause and cardiovascular mortality were both reduced in patients taking triple therapy with LABA + LAMA + ICS: adjusted hazard ratio 0.51 (95% CI 0.41-0.64) and 0.56 (95% CI 0.35-0.90), respectively.
CONCLUSION: In patients exposed to ICS, concomitant use of LAMA alone as dual therapy or in combination with LABA as triple therapy were associated with reductions in all-cause mortality, while concomitant use of LABA without LAMA conferred no reduction.
The impact of the addition of tiotropium (Tio) to ICS + LABA therapy on all-cause mortality, hospital admissions for respiratory disease, and emergency oral corticosteroid bursts was evaluated.
RESULTS: A total of 1,857 patients were given ICS + LABA + Tio, and 996 were given ICS + LABA.
The adjusted HR for all-cause mortality for ICS + LABA + Tio vs ICS + LABA was 0.65 (95% CI, 0.57-0.75; P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: The study suggests that the addition of tiotropium to ICSs and LABA therapy may confer benefits in reducing all-cause mortality, hospital admissions, and oral corticosteroid bursts in patients with COPD.
Several ICS/LABA FDCs are now commercially available or will become available within the next few years for the treatment of COPD and/or asthma.
LAMA/ICS FDCs seem to be useful in COPD and mainly in asthma, in patients with severe asthma and persistent airflow limitation.
The rationale behind the ICS/LABA/LAMA FDCs seems logical because all three agents work via different mechanisms on different targets, potentially allowing for lower doses of the individual agents to be used, accompanied by improved side effect profiles.
In effect, in clinical practice, concomitant use of all three compounds is common, especially in more severe COPD but also in the treatment of adults with poorly controlled asthma despite maintenance treatment with high-dose ICS and a LABA.DOI: 10.1007/164_2016_66PMID: 27783268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]79.
Despite recommendations to the contrary, 66% of the patients in Groups A and B (low exacerbation rates) were treated with ICS; some of these patients carried an additional diagnosis of bronchial asthma.
Triple therapy resulted in the reduction of the annual rate of moderate or severe exacerbations in the range of 15-52% compared with LAMA/LABA, 15-35% compared to LABA/ICS and 20% compared to LAMA.
eCollection 2017.Maintenance therapy in COPD: time to phase out ICS and switch to the new LAMA/LABA inhalers?Tariq SM(1), Thomas EC(2).Author information:(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Luton and Dunstable University Hospital, Luton.(2)Respiratory Unit, Bedford Hospital, Bedford, UK.Long-term maintenance therapy for COPD is evolving rapidly.
The new LAMA/LABA inhalers could potentially reduce the use of ICS as part and parcel of maintenance therapy in COPD.
Recent studies compared these LAMA/LABA inhalers with ICS/LABA combination inhalers in moderate-to-severe COPD.
Furthermore, there is a clearer picture emerging as to the subgroup of COPD patients who may be able to successfully switch from their current ICS/LABA therapy to these new LAMA/LABA inhalers.
The ICS prescriptions decreased in mild COPD, but there was no change for inhaled long-acting beta-2 agonist (LABA) (68 %).
The use of LABA+LAMA association without ICS increased from 0.9 to 7 %, but remained lower than the fixed LABA+ICS association (26 %), less often prescribed than the triple association LABA+ICS+LAMA (32.5 % in period 2).
Epub 2017 Nov 8.Use of ICS in COPD: From Blockbuster Medicine to Precision Medicine.
However, several observational studies showed a high rate of prescription of ICS in COPD, irrespective of clinical recommendations, questioning the efficacy of these compounds in unselected patients with COPD and leading to possible increase risk of side effects related to ICS use.
After examining the low levels of adherence in primary care and in the clinical settings to national and international recommendations for the treatment of COPD in different countries, the most common drivers of the prevailing use of ICS are critically reviewed here by examining their pros and cons, aimed at identifying evidence-based drivers for a proper selection of patients who may benefit from the proper use of ICS.DOI: 10.1080/15412555.2017.1385056PMID: 29116901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]100.
When two classes of medications are required, LAMA plus LABA (LAMA+LABA) and LABA plus ICS (LABA+ICS) are often selected because these combinations can be administered via a single medication device.
This review presents the clinical evidence that led to the approval of these triple therapies, discusses the role of ICS in patients with COPD, and presents data on the relative efficacy of "fixed triple" (ICS/LAMA/LABA) therapy vs LAMA, ICS/LABA, and LAMA/LABA combinations, and summarizes studies in which ICS/LABAs were combined with LAMAs to form "open triple" combinations.
Overall, compared to LAMA, ICS/LABA, or LAMA/LABA, triple therapy decreased the risk of exacerbations and improved lung function and health status, with a favorable benefit-to-harm ratio.
Triple therapy was associated with a significantly reduced rate of moderate or severe exacerbations compared with LAMA monotherapy (rate ratio 0.71, 95% confidence interval 0.60 to 0.85), LAMA and LABA (0.78, 0.70 to 0.88), and ICS and LABA (0.77, 0.66 to 0.91).
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All English-language randomized-controlled trials comparing LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA combination inhaler therapy were evaluated.
DATA SYNTHESIS: A total of 10 randomized controlled trials have reviewed the use of LAMA/LABA compared with ICS/LABA therapy for COPD maintenance therapy.
Results of clinical trials that evaluated LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA maintenance therapy demonstrated superior improvements in pulmonary function tests via spirometry and improved clinical outcomes with LAMA/LABA therapy, specifically reduction in COPD exacerbation rates.
The safety of LAMA/LABA combination therapy also is favorable compared with ICS/LABA combination therapy because of the increased infection risk with ICS therapy.
LAMA/LABA combination therapy has demonstrated superior improvements in pulmonary function and reduction in COPD exacerbation rates compared with ICS/LABA.
eCollection 2017.LABA/LAMA combinations versus LAMA monotherapy or LABA/ICS in COPD: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
The objective of this analysis was to compare the efficacy and safety of LABA/LAMA with LAMA or LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in adults with stable moderate-to-very-severe COPD.METHODS: This systematic review and meta-analysis (PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Library and clinical trial/manufacturer databases) included RCTs comparing ≥12 weeks' LABA/LAMA treatment with LAMA and/or LABA/ICS (approved doses only).
LABA/LAMA significantly improved trough forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) from baseline to week 12 versus both LAMA and LABA/ICS (0.07 L and 0.08 L, P<0.0001), with patients more likely to achieve clinically important improvements in FEV1 of >100 mL (risk ratio [RR]: 1.33, 95% confidence interval [CI]: [1.20, 1.46] and RR: 1.44, 95% CI: [1.33, 1.56], respectively, the number needed to treat being eight and six, respectively).
LABA/LAMA improved transitional dyspnea index and St George's Respiratory Questionnaire scores at week 12 versus LAMA (both P<0.0001), but not versus LABA/ICS, and reduced rescue medication use versus both (P<0.0001 and P=0.001, respectively).
LABA/LAMA significantly reduced moderate/severe exacerbation rate compared with LABA/ICS (RR 0.82, 95% CI: [0.75, 0.91]).
Adverse event (AE) incidence was no different for LABA/LAMA versus LAMA treatment, but it was lower versus LABA/ICS (RR 0.94, 95% CI: [0.89, 0.99]), including a lower pneumonia risk (RR 0.59, 95% CI: [0.43, 0.81]).
LABA/LAMA presented a lower risk for withdrawals due to lack of efficacy versus LAMA (RR: 0.66, 95% CI: [0.51, 0.87]) and due to AEs versus LABA/ICS (RR: 0.83, 95% CI: [0.69, 0.99]).CONCLUSION: The greater efficacy and comparable safety profiles observed with LABA/LAMA combinations versus LAMA or LABA/ICS support their potential role as first-line treatment options in COPD.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011721.pub2.Long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to combination long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) versus LABA/ICS for adults with asthma.
Kew KM(1), Dahri K.Author information:(1)Population Health Research Institute, St George's, University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London, UK, SW17 0RE.BACKGROUND: Maintenance treatment with long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) can relieve asthma symptoms and reduce the frequency of exacerbations, but there are limited treatment options for people who do not gain control on combination LABA/ICS.
Long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) are a class of inhaled drug which have been effective for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and are now becoming available for people with asthma to take alongside their LABA/ICS inhaler.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of adding a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) to combination long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in adults whose asthma is not well controlled by LABA/ICS.SEARCH METHODS: We identified trials from the Cochrane Airways Review Group Specialised Register (CAGR) up to January 2016.
Studies met the inclusion criteria if they compared LAMA as an add-on to LABA/ICS versus LABA/ICS alone for adults with asthma.
We rated all outcomes using GRADE.MAIN RESULTS: We found four double-blind, double-dummy trials comparing LAMA to placebo, including 1197 people with asthma taking combination LABA/ICS.
People randomised to take tiotropium add-on had fewer exacerbations requiring oral corticosteroids than those continuing to take LABA/ICS alone, but the confidence intervals did not rule out no difference (OR 0.76, 95% CI 0.57 to 1.02; moderate quality evidence).
Over 48 weeks, 328 out of 1000 people taking their usual LABA/ICS would have to take oral corticosteroids for an exacerbation compared with 271 if they took tiotropium as well (95% CI 218 to 333 per 1000).
Quality of life, as measured by the Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) was no better for those taking tiotropium add-on than for those taking LABA/ICS alone when considered in light of the 0.5 minimal clinically important difference on the scale (MD 0.09, 95% CI - 0.03 to 0.20), and evidence for whether tiotropium increased or decreased serious adverse events in this population was inconsistent (OR 0.60, 95% CI 0.24 to 1.47; I(2) = 76%).Within the secondary outcomes, exacerbations requiring hospital admission were too rare to tell whether tiotropium was beneficial over LABA/ICS alone.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Tiotropium add-on may have additional benefits over LABA/ICS alone in reducing the need for rescue oral steroids in people with severe asthma.
There are likely to be small added benefits for tiotropium Respimat 5 µg daily on lung function and asthma control over LABA/ICS alone and fewer non-serious adverse events.
Randomized clinical trials of at least 12 weeks of duration comparing LABA/LAMA and LABA/ICS combinations were included.
LABA/LAMA was associated with greater improvement in FEV1 than LABA/ICS (mean difference (MD) 0.09L, 95%confidence interval (CI) 0.07 to 0.11L; high certainty).
LABA/LAMA was associated with an absolute reduction of approximately 8% in the incidence of pneumonia compared with LABA/ICS (risk ratio 0.41, 95%CI 0.18 to 0.94; moderate certainty).
Our findings support the use of dual long-acting bronchodilators for patients with advanced COPD but without frequent exacerbations given the excess risk of pneumonia with LABA/ICS.DOI: 10.3109/15412555.2016.1170799PMID: 27148815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]17.
PURPOSE: To assess the comparative efficacy of short-acting muscarinic antagonists (SAMAs), long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), LAMA in combination with long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs; LAMA/LABAs) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in combination with LABA (ICS/LABAs) for the maintenance treatment of COPD.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We systematically reviewed 74 randomized controlled trials (74,832 participants) published up to 15 November 2017, which compared any of the interventions (SAMA [ipratropium], LAMA [aclidinium, glycopyrronium, tiotropium, umeclidinium], LAMA/LABA [aclidinium/formoterol, indacaterol/glycopyrronium, tiotropium/olodaterol, umeclidinium/vilanterol] and ICS/LABA [fluticasone/vilanterol, budesonide/formoterol, salmeterol/fluticasone]) with each other or with placebo.
LAMAs, LAMA/LABAs and ICS/LABAs led to a significantly greater improvement in trough FEV1 compared with placebo and SAMA monotherapy at weeks 12 and 24.
All LAMA/LABAs, except aclidinium/formoterol, were statistically significantly better than LAMA monotherapy and ICS/LABAs in improving trough FEV1.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011721.pub2.Long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to combination long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) versus LABA/ICS for adults with asthma.
Kew KM(1), Dahri K.Author information:(1)Population Health Research Institute, St George's, University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London, UK, SW17 0RE.BACKGROUND: Maintenance treatment with long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) can relieve asthma symptoms and reduce the frequency of exacerbations, but there are limited treatment options for people who do not gain control on combination LABA/ICS.
Long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) are a class of inhaled drug which have been effective for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and are now becoming available for people with asthma to take alongside their LABA/ICS inhaler.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of adding a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) to combination long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in adults whose asthma is not well controlled by LABA/ICS.SEARCH METHODS: We identified trials from the Cochrane Airways Review Group Specialised Register (CAGR) up to January 2016.
Studies met the inclusion criteria if they compared LAMA as an add-on to LABA/ICS versus LABA/ICS alone for adults with asthma.
We rated all outcomes using GRADE.MAIN RESULTS: We found four double-blind, double-dummy trials comparing LAMA to placebo, including 1197 people with asthma taking combination LABA/ICS.
People randomised to take tiotropium add-on had fewer exacerbations requiring oral corticosteroids than those continuing to take LABA/ICS alone, but the confidence intervals did not rule out no difference (OR 0.76, 95% CI 0.57 to 1.02; moderate quality evidence).
Over 48 weeks, 328 out of 1000 people taking their usual LABA/ICS would have to take oral corticosteroids for an exacerbation compared with 271 if they took tiotropium as well (95% CI 218 to 333 per 1000).
Quality of life, as measured by the Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) was no better for those taking tiotropium add-on than for those taking LABA/ICS alone when considered in light of the 0.5 minimal clinically important difference on the scale (MD 0.09, 95% CI - 0.03 to 0.20), and evidence for whether tiotropium increased or decreased serious adverse events in this population was inconsistent (OR 0.60, 95% CI 0.24 to 1.47; I(2) = 76%).Within the secondary outcomes, exacerbations requiring hospital admission were too rare to tell whether tiotropium was beneficial over LABA/ICS alone.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Tiotropium add-on may have additional benefits over LABA/ICS alone in reducing the need for rescue oral steroids in people with severe asthma.
There are likely to be small added benefits for tiotropium Respimat 5 µg daily on lung function and asthma control over LABA/ICS alone and fewer non-serious adverse events.
The ICS/LABA/LAMA combination reduced the risk of exacerbation (relative risk 0.70, 95% CI 0.53-0.94) and improved trough forced expiratory volume in 1 s (mean difference in mL +37.94, 95% CI 18.83-53.89) versus LABA/LAMA combination therapy.
While ∼38 patients had to be treated for 1 year with ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy to prevent one exacerbation compared to LABA/LAMA combination therapy, the number needed to treat (NNT) was ∼21 when compared to single long-acting bronchodilator therapy.
The person-based NNT per year of ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy versus LABA/LAMA combination therapy was significantly (p<0.05) lower in patients with eosinophil counts ≥300 cells·µL-1 (NNT value: 8.58) than in those with counts <300 cells·µL-1 (NNT value: 46.28).
The risk of pneumonia did not differ between ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy and its comparators.
This meta-analysis suggests that patients on single long-acting bronchodilator therapy or LABA/LAMA combination therapy, who still have exacerbations and have blood eosinophil counts ≥300 cells·µL-1, could benefit from ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy.
This review evaluates the evidence available on the safety of existing LAMAs alone or in combination with LABAs and ICS in patients with COPD.DOI: 10.1080/00325481.2017.1317575PMID: 28395575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]9.
2019 May 1;9(4):e009183corr1.OBJECTIVE: To compare the safety and effectiveness of long-acting β-antagonists (LABA), long-acting antimuscarinic agents (LAMA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) for managing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).SETTING: Systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA).PARTICIPANTS: 208 randomised clinical trials (RCTs) including 134,692 adults with COPD.INTERVENTIONS: LABA, LAMA and/or ICS, alone or in combination, versus each other or placebo.
Randomized clinical trials of at least 12 weeks of duration comparing LABA/LAMA and LABA/ICS combinations were included.
LABA/LAMA was associated with greater improvement in FEV1 than LABA/ICS (mean difference (MD) 0.09L, 95%confidence interval (CI) 0.07 to 0.11L; high certainty).
LABA/LAMA was associated with an absolute reduction of approximately 8% in the incidence of pneumonia compared with LABA/ICS (risk ratio 0.41, 95%CI 0.18 to 0.94; moderate certainty).
Our findings support the use of dual long-acting bronchodilators for patients with advanced COPD but without frequent exacerbations given the excess risk of pneumonia with LABA/ICS.DOI: 10.3109/15412555.2016.1170799PMID: 27148815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]17.
Expert commentary: SMART provides greater or equal levels of sustained asthma control than similar or higher fixed doses of ICS/LABA plus short-acting beta2-agonist (SABA) as needed or higher ICS plus SABA as needed, with lower overall ICS doses and cost.
Budesonide/formoterol as needed in mild asthma (patients qualifying for regular low-dose ICS) is currently under investigation in two double-blind randomized studies, SYGMA1/2 (NCT02149199/NCT02224157), comparing budesonide/formoterol as needed with budesonide plus SABA and SABA alone.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All English-language randomized-controlled trials comparing LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA combination inhaler therapy were evaluated.
DATA SYNTHESIS: A total of 10 randomized controlled trials have reviewed the use of LAMA/LABA compared with ICS/LABA therapy for COPD maintenance therapy.
Results of clinical trials that evaluated LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA maintenance therapy demonstrated superior improvements in pulmonary function tests via spirometry and improved clinical outcomes with LAMA/LABA therapy, specifically reduction in COPD exacerbation rates.
The safety of LAMA/LABA combination therapy also is favorable compared with ICS/LABA combination therapy because of the increased infection risk with ICS therapy.
LAMA/LABA combination therapy has demonstrated superior improvements in pulmonary function and reduction in COPD exacerbation rates compared with ICS/LABA.
Evidence is limited on the comparative effectiveness of LABA/LAMA and LABA/ICS in COPD.
The objective of this study was to compare real-world COPD exacerbation rates among patients treated with LABA/LAMA with those treated with LABA/ICS.METHODS: This was a retrospective observational study of COPD patients in the United States treated with LABA/LAMA or LABA/ICS combination.
Individuals were censored if they discontinued a study medication, initiated medication from the opposite cohort (LAMA or ICS), lost enrollment eligibility, or at the study period end.
RESULTS: There were 5384 patients in the LABA/LAMA cohort and 473,388 patients in the LABA/ICS cohort.
Unadjusted annual exacerbation rates were 2.87 events per person-year (standard deviation [SD] 5.14) in the LABA/LAMA cohort and 1.68 (SD 9.82) in the LABA/ICS cohort.
The adjusted incidence rate ratio was 0.98 (95% confidence interval 0.95-1.01) for LABA/LAMA compared with LABA/ICS.CONCLUSIONS: The LABA/LAMA combination had similar effectiveness to LABA/ICS as measured by exacerbation rates in COPD patients.
2018 Mar - Apr;6(2):644-645.BACKGROUND: Stepping down therapy when asthma is well controlled on combination inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) and long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs) is recommended, but it is not known whether lowering the ICS dose or stopping LABA is superior.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether step-down therapy with LABA is superior to one without; and, secondarily, to evaluate whether reducing the ICS dose while maintaining LABA is noninferior to remaining on stable-ICS/LABA.METHODS: The study was a randomized, double-masked 3-arm parallel group trial in participants aged 12 years or older.
Following an 8-week run-in, 459 participants were randomly assigned to continue medium-dose ICS/LABA, reduced-dose ICS/LABA, or ICS alone (LABA-step-off) and followed for 48 weeks.
RESULTS: Time to treatment failure did not differ significantly between reduced- ICS/LABA and LABA-step-off (hazard ratio, 1.07; 95.3% CI, 0.69-1.65, P = .76).
The dose of ICS is determined according to ACO severity.
Unexplained paradoxical asthma exacerbations and deaths have been associated with LABAs, particularly when used without ICS.
2018 Mar - Apr;6(2):644-645.BACKGROUND: Stepping down therapy when asthma is well controlled on combination inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) and long acting beta agonists (LABAs) is recommended, but it is not known whether lowering the ICS dose or stopping LABA is superior.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether step-down therapy with LABA is superior to one without; and, secondarily, to evaluate whether reducing the ICS dose while maintaining LABA is noninferior to remaining on stable-ICS/LABA.METHODS: The study was a randomized, double-masked 3-arm parallel group trial in participants aged 12 years or older.
Following an 8-week run-in, 459 participants were randomly assigned to continue medium-dose ICS/LABA, reduced-dose ICS/LABA, or ICS alone (LABA-step-off) and followed for 48 weeks.
RESULTS: Time to treatment failure did not differ significantly between reduced- ICS/LABA and LABA-step-off (hazard ratio, 1.07; 95.3% CI, 0.69-1.65, P = .76).
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All English-language randomized-controlled trials comparing LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA combination inhaler therapy were evaluated.
DATA SYNTHESIS: A total of 10 randomized controlled trials have reviewed the use of LAMA/LABA compared with ICS/LABA therapy for COPD maintenance therapy.
Results of clinical trials that evaluated LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA maintenance therapy demonstrated superior improvements in pulmonary function tests via spirometry and improved clinical outcomes with LAMA/LABA therapy, specifically reduction in COPD exacerbation rates.
The safety of LAMA/LABA combination therapy also is favorable compared with ICS/LABA combination therapy because of the increased infection risk with ICS therapy.
LAMA/LABA combination therapy has demonstrated superior improvements in pulmonary function and reduction in COPD exacerbation rates compared with ICS/LABA.
Expert commentary: SMART provides greater or equal levels of sustained asthma control than similar or higher fixed doses of ICS/LABA plus short-acting β2-agonist (SABA) as needed or higher ICS plus SABA as needed, with lower overall ICS doses and cost.
Budesonide/formoterol as needed in mild asthma (patients qualifying for regular low-dose ICS) is currently under investigation in two double-blind randomized studies, SYGMA1/2 (NCT02149199/NCT02224157), comparing budesonide/formoterol as needed with budesonide plus SABA and SABA alone.
Evidence is limited on the comparative effectiveness of LABA/LAMA and LABA/ICS in COPD.
The objective of this study was to compare real-world COPD exacerbation rates among patients treated with LABA/LAMA with those treated with LABA/ICS.METHODS: This was a retrospective observational study of COPD patients in the United States treated with LABA/LAMA or LABA/ICS combination.
Individuals were censored if they discontinued a study medication, initiated medication from the opposite cohort (LAMA or ICS), lost enrollment eligibility, or at the study period end.
RESULTS: There were 5384 patients in the LABA/LAMA cohort and 473,388 patients in the LABA/ICS cohort.
Unadjusted annual exacerbation rates were 2.87 events per person-year (standard deviation [SD] 5.14) in the LABA/LAMA cohort and 1.68 (SD 9.82) in the LABA/ICS cohort.
The adjusted incidence rate ratio was 0.98 (95% confidence interval 0.95-1.01) for LABA/LAMA compared with LABA/ICS.CONCLUSIONS: The LABA/LAMA combination had similar effectiveness to LABA/ICS as measured by exacerbation rates in COPD patients.
The ICS/LABA/LAMA combination reduced the risk of exacerbation (relative risk 0.70, 95% CI 0.53-0.94) and improved trough forced expiratory volume in 1 s (mean difference in mL +37.94, 95% CI 18.83-53.89) versus LABA/LAMA combination therapy.
While ∼38 patients had to be treated for 1 year with ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy to prevent one exacerbation compared to LABA/LAMA combination therapy, the number needed to treat (NNT) was ∼21 when compared to single long-acting bronchodilator therapy.
The person-based NNT per year of ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy versus LABA/LAMA combination therapy was significantly (p<0.05) lower in patients with eosinophil counts ≥300 cells·µL-1 (NNT value: 8.58) than in those with counts <300 cells·µL-1 (NNT value: 46.28).
The risk of pneumonia did not differ between ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy and its comparators.
This meta-analysis suggests that patients on single long-acting bronchodilator therapy or LABA/LAMA combination therapy, who still have exacerbations and have blood eosinophil counts ≥300 cells·µL-1, could benefit from ICS/LABA/LAMA combination therapy.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the efficacy and safety of available formulations from four different groups of inhalers (i.e. LABA/LAMA combination, LABA/ICS combination, LAMA and LABA) in people with moderate to severe COPD.
There is evidence that the LABA/LAMA combination decreases moderate to severe exacerbations compared to LABA/ICS combination, LAMA, and LABA in the high-risk population (network hazard ratios (HRs) 0.86 (95% credible interval (CrI) 0.76 to 0.99), 0.87 (95% CrI 0.78 to 0.99), and 0.70 (95% CrI 0.61 to 0.8) respectively), and that LAMA decreases moderate to severe exacerbations compared to LABA in the high- and low-risk populations (network HR 0.80 (95% CrI 0.71 to 0.88) and 0.87 (95% CrI 0.78 to 0.97), respectively).
There is evidence that the LABA/LAMA combination reduces severe exacerbations compared to LABA/ICS combination and LABA in the high-risk population (network HR 0.78 (95% CrI 0.64 to 0.93) and 0.64 (95% CrI 0.51 to 0.81), respectively).There was a general trend towards a greater improvement in symptom and quality-of-life scores with the combination therapies compared to monotherapies, and the combination therapies were generally ranked higher than monotherapies.
The LABA/ICS combination was the lowest ranked in pneumonia serious adverse events (SAEs) in both populations.
There is evidence that the LABA/ICS combination increases the odds of pneumonia compared to LAMA/LABA combination, LAMA and LABA (network ORs: 1.69 (95% CrI 1.20 to 2.44), 1.78 (95% CrI 1.33 to 2.39), and 1.50 (95% CrI 1.17 to 1.92) in the high-risk population and network or pairwise OR: 2.33 (95% CI 1.03 to 5.26), 2.02 (95% CrI 1.16 to 3.72), and 1.93 (95% CrI 1.29 to 3.22) in the low-risk population respectively).
When two classes of medications are required, LAMA plus LABA (LAMA+LABA) and LABA plus ICS (LABA+ICS) are often selected because these combinations can be administered via a single medication device.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether intensified combination therapy with ICS/LABA, at the onset of URTI symptoms, decreases the incidence of COPD exacerbation occurring within 21 days of the URTI.METHODS: A total of 450 patients with stable, moderate to very severe COPD, were included in this investigator-initiated and -driven, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study.
At inclusion, patients were assigned to open-labeled low-maintenance dose ICS/LABA.
Each patient was randomized either to intensified-dose ICS/LABA or placebo and instructed to start using this medication only in case of a URTI, at the onset of symptoms, twice daily, for 10 days.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: The incidence of any exacerbation following a URTI was not significantly decreased in the ICS/LABA group, as compared with placebo (14.6% vs. 16.2%; hazard ratio, 0.77; 95% confidence interval, 0.46-1.33; P = 0.321) but the risk of severe exacerbation was decreased by 72% (hazard ratio, 0.28; 95% confidence interval, 0.11-0.74%; P = 0.010).
CONCLUSIONS: Intensified combination therapy with ICS/LABA for 10 days at URTI onset did not decrease the incidence of any COPD exacerbation but prevented severe exacerbation.
This review presents the clinical evidence that led to the approval of these triple therapies, discusses the role of ICS in patients with COPD, and presents data on the relative efficacy of "fixed triple" (ICS/LAMA/LABA) therapy vs LAMA, ICS/LABA, and LAMA/LABA combinations, and summarizes studies in which ICS/LABAs were combined with LAMAs to form "open triple" combinations.
Overall, compared to LAMA, ICS/LABA, or LAMA/LABA, triple therapy decreased the risk of exacerbations and improved lung function and health status, with a favorable benefit-to-harm ratio.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011721.pub2.long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to combination long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) versus LABA/ICS for adults with asthma.
Kew KM(1), Dahri K.Author information:(1)Population Health Research Institute, St George's, University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London, UK, SW17 0RE.BACKGROUND: Maintenance treatment with long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) can relieve asthma symptoms and reduce the frequency of exacerbations, but there are limited treatment options for people who do not gain control on combination LABA/ICS.
long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) are a class of inhaled drug which have been effective for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and are now becoming available for people with asthma to take alongside their LABA/ICS inhaler.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of adding a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) to combination long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in adults whose asthma is not well controlled by LABA/ICS.SEARCH METHODS: We identified trials from the Cochrane Airways Review Group Specialised Register (CAGR) up to January 2016.
Studies met the inclusion criteria if they compared LAMA as an add-on to LABA/ICS versus LABA/ICS alone for adults with asthma.
We rated all outcomes using GRADE.MAIN RESULTS: We found four double-blind, double-dummy trials comparing LAMA to placebo, including 1197 people with asthma taking combination LABA/ICS.
People randomised to take tiotropium add-on had fewer exacerbations requiring oral corticosteroids than those continuing to take LABA/ICS alone, but the confidence intervals did not rule out no difference (OR 0.76, 95% CI 0.57 to 1.02; moderate quality evidence).
Over 48 weeks, 328 out of 1000 people taking their usual LABA/ICS would have to take oral corticosteroids for an exacerbation compared with 271 if they took tiotropium as well (95% CI 218 to 333 per 1000).
Quality of life, as measured by the Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) was no better for those taking tiotropium add-on than for those taking LABA/ICS alone when considered in light of the 0.5 minimal clinically important difference on the scale (MD 0.09, 95% CI - 0.03 to 0.20), and evidence for whether tiotropium increased or decreased serious adverse events in this population was inconsistent (OR 0.60, 95% CI 0.24 to 1.47; I(2) = 76%).Within the secondary outcomes, exacerbations requiring hospital admission were too rare to tell whether tiotropium was beneficial over LABA/ICS alone.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Tiotropium add-on may have additional benefits over LABA/ICS alone in reducing the need for rescue oral steroids in people with severe asthma.
There are likely to be small added benefits for tiotropium Respimat 5 µg daily on lung function and asthma control over LABA/ICS alone and fewer non-serious adverse events.
Triple therapy was associated with a significantly reduced rate of moderate or severe exacerbations compared with LAMA monotherapy (rate ratio 0.71, 95% confidence interval 0.60 to 0.85), LAMA and LABA (0.78, 0.70 to 0.88), and ICS and LABA (0.77, 0.66 to 0.91).
2019 May 1;9(4):e009183corr1.OBJECTIVE: To compare the safety and effectiveness of long-acting β-antagonists (LABA), long-acting antimuscarinic agents (LAMA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) for managing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).SETTING: Systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA).PARTICIPANTS: 208 randomised clinical trials (RCTs) including 134,692 adults with COPD.INTERVENTIONS: LABA, LAMA and/or ICS, alone or in combination, versus each other or placebo.
There is evidence that triple combination ICS/LABA/LAMA with different inhalers improves lung function, symptoms, and health status and reduces exacerbations.
Two large pivotal studies showed that this extrafine fixed ICS/LABA/LAMA triple combination is superior to fixed ICS/LABA combined therapy and also superior to the LAMA tiotropium in terms of lung function and exacerbation prevention in COPD patients at risk of exacerbation.
PURPOSE: To assess the comparative efficacy of short-acting muscarinic antagonists (SAMAs), long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), LAMA in combination with long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs; LAMA/LABAs) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in combination with LABA (ICS/LABAs) for the maintenance treatment of COPD.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We systematically reviewed 74 randomized controlled trials (74,832 participants) published up to 15 November 2017, which compared any of the interventions (SAMA [ipratropium], LAMA [aclidinium, glycopyrronium, tiotropium, umeclidinium], LAMA/LABA [aclidinium/formoterol, indacaterol/glycopyrronium, tiotropium/olodaterol, umeclidinium/vilanterol] and ICS/LABA [fluticasone/vilanterol, budesonide/formoterol, salmeterol/fluticasone]) with each other or with placebo.
LAMAs, LAMA/LABAs and ICS/LABAs led to a significantly greater improvement in trough FEV1 compared with placebo and SAMA monotherapy at weeks 12 and 24.
All LAMA/LABAs, except aclidinium/formoterol, were statistically significantly better than LAMA monotherapy and ICS/LABAs in improving trough FEV1.
We included studies that allowed participants to continue using their ICS during the trial as long as the ICS was not part of the randomised treatment.
Concomitant inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use was permitted in all of the included studies (where stated); across the included studies, between 28% to 58% of participants were using ICS at baseline.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether roflumilast reduces moderate and/or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbations in patients at risk for exacerbations despite treatment with inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist with or without a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA).METHODS: In this 52-week, phase 4, double-blind, placebo-controlled RE(2)SPOND (Roflumilast Effect on Exacerbations in Patients on Dual [LABA/ICS] Therapy) trial (NCT01443845), participants aged 40 years or older with severe/very severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic bronchitis, two or more exacerbations and/or hospitalizations in the previous year, and receiving inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist with or without LAMA daily for 3 or more months were equally randomized to once-daily roflumilast, 500 μg (n = 1,178), or placebo (n = 1,176).
We examined prescriptions filled for LABDs with or without ICSs (LABDs±ICSs) within 90 days prior to and 30 days after hospitalization.
This review evaluates the evidence available on the safety of existing LAMAs alone or in combination with LABAs and ICS in patients with COPD.DOI: 10.1080/00325481.2017.1317575PMID: 28395575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]30.
eCollection 2017.LABA/LAMA combinations versus LAMA monotherapy or LABA/ICS in COPD: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
The objective of this analysis was to compare the efficacy and safety of LABA/LAMA with LAMA or LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in adults with stable moderate-to-very-severe COPD.METHODS: This systematic review and meta-analysis (PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Library and clinical trial/manufacturer databases) included RCTs comparing ≥12 weeks' LABA/LAMA treatment with LAMA and/or LABA/ICS (approved doses only).
LABA/LAMA significantly improved trough forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) from baseline to week 12 versus both LAMA and LABA/ICS (0.07 L and 0.08 L, P<0.0001), with patients more likely to achieve clinically important improvements in FEV1 of >100 mL (risk ratio [RR]: 1.33, 95% confidence interval [CI]: [1.20, 1.46] and RR: 1.44, 95% CI: [1.33, 1.56], respectively, the number needed to treat being eight and six, respectively).
LABA/LAMA improved transitional dyspnea index and St George's Respiratory Questionnaire scores at week 12 versus LAMA (both P<0.0001), but not versus LABA/ICS, and reduced rescue medication use versus both (P<0.0001 and P=0.001, respectively).
LABA/LAMA significantly reduced moderate/severe exacerbation rate compared with LABA/ICS (RR 0.82, 95% CI: [0.75, 0.91]).
Adverse event (AE) incidence was no different for LABA/LAMA versus LAMA treatment, but it was lower versus LABA/ICS (RR 0.94, 95% CI: [0.89, 0.99]), including a lower pneumonia risk (RR 0.59, 95% CI: [0.43, 0.81]).
LABA/LAMA presented a lower risk for withdrawals due to lack of efficacy versus LAMA (RR: 0.66, 95% CI: [0.51, 0.87]) and due to AEs versus LABA/ICS (RR: 0.83, 95% CI: [0.69, 0.99]).CONCLUSION: The greater efficacy and comparable safety profiles observed with LABA/LAMA combinations versus LAMA or LABA/ICS support their potential role as first-line treatment options in COPD.
Agent-specific NP rates were: 58.5% for LABA, 47.9% for LAMA, 78.0% for ICS, and 69.4% for single-device LABA/ICS combination treatment.
During periods of general treatment continuation, the mean MPR/NA rates were 85.0%/30.1% (patient level across all agents), 89.3%/28.2% (LABA), 92.1%/16.2% (LAMA), 84.2%/43.8% (ICS) and 84.1%/42.8% (LABA/ICS combination).
In comparison to LABA therapy, LAMA therapy was less likely to be associated with early NP, whereas patients who initiated ICS therapy or a single-device LABA/ICS combination therapy faced a higher NP risk.
Patients initiating LABA-LAMA on the same day (no ICS) were matched on time-conditional high-dimensional propensity scores with patients initiating LABA-ICS on the same day (no LAMA), and monitored for 1 year for the occurrence of a moderate or severe COPD exacerbation and severe pneumonia.
Triple therapy is recommended by the Global initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) for patients who experience recurrent exacerbations despite treatment with either a dual bronchodilator (preferred initial therapy) or LABA/ICS combination (alternative initial therapy).
Although there is evidence for the greater efficacy of triple therapy compared with LABA/ICS and LAMA monotherapy with regards to improved lung function, health status, and exacerbation rate, the efficacy of triple therapy when compared with dual bronchodilation (LABA/LAMA) is as yet unknown.
As ICS use is associated with an increased risk of developing pneumonia, it is important to assess the risk/benefit ratio of triple therapy on an individual basis, and identify patients most likely to benefit.
The role of elevated blood eosinophils as a biomarker for the identification of candidates for ICS treatment is currently debated, and further prospective evidence is required.
The potential for treating patients who experience further exacerbations on dual bronchodilation according to phenotype is also considered, as well as withdrawal of ICS from triple therapy in patients who are unlikely to benefit.
TIO/OLO significantly improved trough FEV1 from baseline to week 12 versus TIO, OLO and LABA/ICS (0.06 L, 0.09 L and between 0.04 and 0.05 L, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with TIO/OLO provided significant improvements in lung function versus mono-components and LABA/ICS with more patients achieving significant improvements in dyspnea and health status.
The most commonly initiated regimen was a LABA with an ICS.
ICS use was inconsistent with international guidelines: over- and under-treatment occurred in patients with infrequent and frequent exacerbations, respectively, and ICS monotherapy was common.
CONCLUSION: In this nationwide study, patterns of use of LABAs, LAMAs and ICSs were complex and often did not comply with treatment guidelines.
Randomized clinical trials of at least 12 weeks of duration comparing LABA/LAMA and LABA/ICS combinations were included.
LABA/LAMA was associated with greater improvement in FEV1 than LABA/ICS (mean difference (MD) 0.09L, 95%confidence interval (CI) 0.07 to 0.11L; high certainty).
LABA/LAMA was associated with an absolute reduction of approximately 8% in the incidence of pneumonia compared with LABA/ICS (risk ratio 0.41, 95%CI 0.18 to 0.94; moderate certainty).
Our findings support the use of dual long-acting bronchodilators for patients with advanced COPD but without frequent exacerbations given the excess risk of pneumonia with LABA/ICS.DOI: 10.3109/15412555.2016.1170799PMID: 27148815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]56.
Univariate linear regression analysis revealed that there was a significant negative association of irisin with age-adjusted Charlson score (p = 0.003) and a positive association of irisin with 6-min walking distance (6MWD) (p = 0.018) and treatment with LAMA (p = 0.004) but not with LABA or ICS.
The relative merits of treating with different inhaled combination therapies e.g. inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)/long-acting beta-agonist (LABA), LABA/long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), ICS/LABA/LAMA, in this patient group are poorly understood, as is reflected in current guidelines.
We aimed to investigate nationwide time trends in individual-level treatment patterns of long-acting bronchodilators and ICS.
Using nationwide Danish health registries, we identified all Danish adults with a prescription for long-acting bronchodilators and/or ICS from 2000 to 2016.
We investigated the total use of long-acting bronchodilators and ICS, the proportion of current users and the rate of new users over time.
We included 23,061,681 prescriptions for long-acting bronchodilators and ICS issued to 805,860 individuals from 2000 to 2016.
Over this period, the total annual amount of prescribed long-acting bronchodilators and ICS increased by 39%.
In general, the proportion of patients on therapy after 1 year was low (25-53%), especially among young individuals and users of ICS.
We document a pronounced increase in the total use of long-acting bronchodilators and ICS over time, mainly driven by the introduction of combination drugs and LAMA.
Special attention should be paid to the low level of persistence, especially among young individuals and users of ICS.
The most common prescription pathway to TT was LABA plus ICS.
It was observed that exacerbation history did influence the pathway of LABA plus ICS to TT.CONCLUSION: Real life UK prescription data demonstrates the inappropriate prescribing of TT and confirms that starting patients on ICS plus LABA results in the inevitable drift to overuse of TT.
LABAs, LAMAs, and ICS were used in reduced doses in both patient groups compared to daily defined doses (DDD).
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Little information is available on real-life occurrence of oral thrush in COPD patients treated with ICS.
We investigated oral thrush incidence in COPD patients prescribed FDC ICS/LABA therapies and assessed whether it is modulated by the ICS type, dose, and delivery device.
We assessed oral thrush incidence in patients initiating long-acting bronchodilators or FDC ICS/LABA therapy.
We then compared different combination therapies (budesonide/formoterol fumarate dihydrate [BUD/FOR] and fluticasone propionate/salmeterol xinafoate [FP/SAL]) and devices (DPI and pMDI).RESULTS: Patients prescribed FDC ICS/LABA had significantly greater odds of experiencing oral thrush than those prescribed long-acting bronchodilators alone (adjusted OR 2.18 [95% CI 1.84-2.59]).
Additionally, in the FP/SAL cohort (both DPI and pMDI), increased risk of oral thrush was significantly associated with high ICS daily dose (OR 1.97 [1.22-3.17] vs low daily dose).CONCLUSIONS: ICS use increases oral thrush incidence in COPD and this effect is dose-dependent for FP/SAL therapies.
LABA/LAMA FDCs significantly improved lung function (FEV1) at 12 weeks compared with LABA or LAMA or LABA/ICS.
Only the LABA/LAMA FDC indacaterol/glycopyrronium has shown superiority vs LAMA and LABA/ICS for reducing exacerbation rates, while olodaterol/tiotropium and indacaterol/glycopyrronium have been shown to improve ET and IC vs the active comparators.
So far, indacaterol/glycopyrronium is the LABA/LAMA FDC that has the strongest evidence for superiority vs LABA, LAMA, and LABA/ICS FDCs across the evaluated outcomes.
Epub 2019 Jan 17.Adding a LAMA to ICS/LABA Therapy: A Meta-analysis of Triple Combination Therapy in COPD.Calzetta L(1), Cazzola M(2), Matera MG(3), Rogliani P(1).Author information:(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, Unit of Respiratory Medicine, University of Rome "Tor Vergata," Rome, Italy.(2)Department of Experimental Medicine, Unit of Respiratory Medicine, University of Rome "Tor Vergata," Rome, Italy.
2019 May;155(5):1079-1080.BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) combination is commonly prescribed to treat COPD; therefore, we performed a meta-analysis on the effect of adding a long acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (LAMA) to ICS/LABA combination in COPD.METHODS: Studies were identified by searching in different databases the randomized controlled trials that investigated the effect of ICS/LABA/LAMA combination in COPD.
The primary end points were the effect of triple therapy on trough FEV1, risk of acute exacerbation of COPD (AECOPD), and risk of cardiovascular serious adverse events (SAEs), compared with ICS/LABA combination.
RESULTS: Thirteen randomized controlled trials including 15,519 patients with COPD (ICS/LABA/LAMA combination, 53.1%; ICS/LABA combination, 46.9%) were meta-analyzed.
For every approximately four patients treated with triple therapy, one increased FEV1 > 100 mL, and approximately 26 patients had to be treated for 1 year with ICS/LABA/LAMA combination to prevent one AECOPD, compared with ICS/LABA combination.
Adding a LAMA to ICS/LABA therapy did not modulate the risk of cardiovascular SAEs (moderate quality of evidence).CONCLUSIONS: Triple therapy provides significant clinical benefit in patients with COPD on ICS/LABA combination.
We compared the effectiveness and safety of LABA-ICS versus LAMA treatment initiation as a function of blood eosinophilia, a potential biomarker of ICS effectiveness, in a real-world setting.
Because of the increased risk of pneumonia associated with the ICS component, initiation with a LAMA should be preferred in patients with blood eosinophil concentrations of less than 4%.FUNDING: Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Canadian Foundation for Innovation.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular (CCV) events associated with LABA/LAMA compared with a combination of LABA and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS).METHODS: This was a retrospective, observational cohort study using health insurance claims data to identify COPD patients initiating LABA/LAMA or LABA/ICS.
RESULTS: After matching, there were 3842 patients in the LABA/LAMA cohort and 15 225 in the LABA/ICS cohort.
Cardiovascular events in the LABA/LAMA cohort were lower than in the LABA/ICS: hazard ratio (HR) = 0.794; 95% CI = 0.623-0.997.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite concerns about the CCV effects of LAMA and LABA monotherapy, the LABA/LAMA combination had similar or lower risk of these events in comparison to LABA/ICS.
However, the benefits and risks of adding ICS to combination LABA/LAMA inhalers remains unclear.
We also searched ClinicalTrials.gov, World Health Organisation (WHO) trials portal and pharmaceutical company clinical trials' databases up to 7 Janurary 2016.SELECTION CRITERIA: We included parallel-group, randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of three weeks' duration or longer which compared treatment of stable COPD with ICS in addition to combination LABA/LAMA inhalers against combination LABA/LAMA inhalers alone.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There are currently no studies published assessing the effect of ICS in addition to combination LABA/LAMA inhalers for the treatment of stable COPD.
As combination LABA/LAMA inhalers are now widely available, there is a need for well-designed RCTs to investigate whether ICS provides any added therapeutic benefit.
Based on currently available data on adding inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) to a LABA, ICS might be added to a LABA/LAMA combination in exacerbating patients who have an asthma-COPD overlap syndrome or high blood eosinophil counts, while in exacerbators with chronic bronchitis, consideration should be given to treating with a phosphodiesterase (PDE)-4 inhibitor (roflumilast) or high-dose mucolytic agents.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All English-language randomized-controlled trials comparing LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA combination inhaler therapy were evaluated.
DATA SYNTHESIS: A total of 10 randomized controlled trials have reviewed the use of LAMA/LABA compared with ICS/LABA therapy for COPD maintenance therapy.
Results of clinical trials that evaluated LAMA/LABA and ICS/LABA maintenance therapy demonstrated superior improvements in pulmonary function tests via spirometry and improved clinical outcomes with LAMA/LABA therapy, specifically reduction in COPD exacerbation rates.
The safety of LAMA/LABA combination therapy also is favorable compared with ICS/LABA combination therapy because of the increased infection risk with ICS therapy.
LAMA/LABA combination therapy has demonstrated superior improvements in pulmonary function and reduction in COPD exacerbation rates compared with ICS/LABA.
COPD patients with ≥2 years continuous practice data, ≥2 prescriptions for FP/SAL via pMDI/DPI, and no prescription for ICS were selected from the Optimum Patient Care Research Database.
At 1,000 μg/d, we observed lower LAMA prescription for pMDI (adjusted odds ratio: 0.71; 95% confidence interval: 0.55, 0.91), but no difference in exacerbation rates, potentially due to higher dose of ICS overcoming low lung delivery from the DPI.DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S141409PMCID: PMC5566416PMID: 28860739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure RJ has received personal fees from Almirall, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, and Nutricia; grants, personal fees, and nonfinancial support from Novartis and Astra Zeneca; and personal fees and nonfinancial support from Mundipharma.
Several ICS/LABA FDCs are now commercially available or will become available within the next few years for the treatment of COPD and/or asthma.
LAMA/ICS FDCs seem to be useful in COPD and mainly in asthma, in patients with severe asthma and persistent airflow limitation.
The rationale behind the ICS/LABA/LAMA FDCs seems logical because all three agents work via different mechanisms on different targets, potentially allowing for lower doses of the individual agents to be used, accompanied by improved side effect profiles.
In effect, in clinical practice, concomitant use of all three compounds is common, especially in more severe COPD but also in the treatment of adults with poorly controlled asthma despite maintenance treatment with high-dose ICS and a LABA.DOI: 10.1007/164_2016_66PMID: 27783268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]108.
Despite recommendations to the contrary, 66% of the patients in Groups A and B (low exacerbation rates) were treated with ICS; some of these patients carried an additional diagnosis of bronchial asthma.
Triple therapy resulted in the reduction of the annual rate of moderate or severe exacerbations in the range of 15-52% compared with LAMA/LABA, 15-35% compared to LABA/ICS and 20% compared to LAMA.
Ultimately this clinical practice has led to the widespread use of ICSs, which are supported by a more favorable side effect profile than that of systemic steroids.
OBJECTIVES: To assess relative effects of the following treatments on markers of exacerbations, symptoms, quality of life and lung function in patients with COPD.• Tiotropium plus LABA/ICS versus tiotropium.• Tiotropium plus LABA/ICS versus LABA/ICS.SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register of Trials (April 2015), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.ClinicalTrials.gov), the World Health Organization (WHO) trials portal and reference lists of relevant articles.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included parallel, randomised controlled trials (RCTs) lasting three months or longer conducted to compare ICS and LABA combination therapy in addition to inhaled tiotropium versus tiotropium alone or combination therapy alone.
MAIN RESULTS: Tiotropium plus LABA/ICS versus tiotropiumWe included six studies (1902 participants) with low risk of bias that compared tiotropium in addition to inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta2-agonist combination therapy versus tiotropium alone.
Investigators found no statistically significant differences in mortality between treatments (odds ratio (OR) 1.80, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.55 to 5.91; two studies; 961 participants), a reduction in all-cause hospitalisations with the use of combined therapy (tiotropium + LABA/ICS) (OR 0.61, 95% CI 0.40 to 0.92; two studies; 961 participants; number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome (NNTB) 19.7, 95% CI 10.75 to 123.41).
Health-related quality of life measured by St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) showed a statistically significant improvement in total scores with use of tiotropium + LABA/ICS compared with tiotropium alone (mean difference (MD) -3.46, 95% CI -5.05 to -1.87; four studies; 1446 participants).
Lung function was significantly different in the combined therapy (tiotropium + LABA/ICS) group, although average benefit with this therapy was small.
Tiotropium plus LABA/ICS versus LABA/ICSOne of the six studies (60 participants) also compared combined therapy (tiotropium + LABA/ICS) versus LABA/ICS therapy alone.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: In this update, we found new moderate-quality evidence that combined tiotropium + LABA/ICS therapy compared with tiotropium plus placebo decreases hospital admission.
However, evidence is insufficient to support the benefit of tiotropium + LABA/ICS for mortality and exacerbations (moderate- and low-quality evidence, respectively).
Compared with the use of tiotropium plus placebo, tiotropium + LABA/ICS-based therapy does not increase undesirable effects such as adverse events or serious non-fatal adverse events.
eCollection 2017.Maintenance therapy in COPD: time to phase out ICS and switch to the new LAMA/LABA inhalers?Tariq SM(1), Thomas EC(2).Author information:(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Luton and Dunstable University Hospital, Luton.(2)Respiratory Unit, Bedford Hospital, Bedford, UK.Long-term maintenance therapy for COPD is evolving rapidly.
The new LAMA/LABA inhalers could potentially reduce the use of ICS as part and parcel of maintenance therapy in COPD.
Recent studies compared these LAMA/LABA inhalers with ICS/LABA combination inhalers in moderate-to-severe COPD.
Furthermore, there is a clearer picture emerging as to the subgroup of COPD patients who may be able to successfully switch from their current ICS/LABA therapy to these new LAMA/LABA inhalers.
Epub 2018 Feb 10.Use of ICS/LABA Combinations or LAMA Is Associated with a Lower Risk of Acute Exacerbation in Patients with Coexistent COPD and Asthma.
After adjustment, hazard ratios (HRs) for long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist (ICS/LABA) combinations were lower (time-dependent model, 1 year: LAMA, HR 0.51, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.49-0.54; ICS/LABA combinations, HR 0.61, 95% CI 0.60-0.62; all P < .0001) than were those for LABAs or ICSs in patients with COPD and asthma.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of LAMA or ICS/LABA combinations was associated with a lower risk of acute exacerbation in patients with COPD and asthma in this study.
The ICS prescriptions decreased in mild COPD, but there was no change for inhaled long-acting beta-2 agonist (LABA) (68 %).
The use of LABA+LAMA association without ICS increased from 0.9 to 7 %, but remained lower than the fixed LABA+ICS association (26 %), less often prescribed than the triple association LABA+ICS+LAMA (32.5 % in period 2).
Epub 2017 Nov 8.Use of ICS in COPD: From Blockbuster Medicine to Precision Medicine.
However, several observational studies showed a high rate of prescription of ICS in COPD, irrespective of clinical recommendations, questioning the efficacy of these compounds in unselected patients with COPD and leading to possible increase risk of side effects related to ICS use.
After examining the low levels of adherence in primary care and in the clinical settings to national and international recommendations for the treatment of COPD in different countries, the most common drivers of the prevailing use of ICS are critically reviewed here by examining their pros and cons, aimed at identifying evidence-based drivers for a proper selection of patients who may benefit from the proper use of ICS.DOI: 10.1080/15412555.2017.1385056PMID: 29116901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]132.
This review summarizes the position of LAMA/LABA combinations in treatment recommendations, and the evidence supporting their placement relative to LAMA monotherapy and ICS/LABA combination therapy, as well as differences within the LAMA/LABA class.
Most studies show that LAMA/LABA treatment leads to greater improvements in lung function and symptoms than LAMA monotherapy or ICS/LABA treatment.
There are fewer studies comparing the impact of different medication classes on patients' risk of exacerbations; however, the available evidence suggests that LAMA/LABA treatment and LAMA monotherapy lead to a similar reduction in exacerbation risk, while the effect of LAMA/LABA compared with ICS/LABA remains unclear.
There is a lower risk of pneumonia with LAMA/LABA compared with ICS/LABA.
RESULTS: Overall use of any COPD regimen remained stable in the year following the formulary listing of LAMA/LABA combination products in May 2015, as did the use of LABA/ICS (most commonly-used regimen).
Use of LAMA/LABA and LAMA/LABA + ICS (inhaled corticosteroid) regimens rose rapidly to 283 and 56 users per 100,000 population, respectively, while concurrent falls were seen for LAMA + LABA/ICS (2047 to 1944), LAMA + LABA + ICS (30-19), and LAMA + LABA (103-63).
New users of LAMA/LABA were more likely to be male, urban-dwelling, and to have transitioned from LABA/ICS therapy than new users of LAMA + LABA, and less likely to have transitioned from LAMA or LABA monotherapy, or LAMA + ICS.
2016 May;74(5):827-32.[Role of ICS/LABA on COPD treatment].[Article in Japanese]Shibata Y.In the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), bronchodilators such as long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and long acting β agonist(LABA) play key roles for improving respiratory function and symptoms, and reducing risk of exacerbation.
Japanese Respiratory Society recommends to use ICS for severe COPD patients who have been frequently exacerbated, because previous clinical studies indicated that ICS reduces exacerbation in moderate to severe COPD patients.
Therefore, ICS/LABA or ICS/LAMA should be prescribed to those overlapped patients.
Concentration of exhaled nitrogen oxide and percentage of peripheral eosinophil may be good biomarkers for discriminating the COPD patients who have good response to ICS treatment.
Evidence is limited on the comparative effectiveness of LABA/LAMA and LABA/ICS in COPD.
The objective of this study was to compare real-world COPD exacerbation rates among patients treated with LABA/LAMA with those treated with LABA/ICS.METHODS: This was a retrospective observational study of COPD patients in the United States treated with LABA/LAMA or LABA/ICS combination.
Individuals were censored if they discontinued a study medication, initiated medication from the opposite cohort (LAMA or ICS), lost enrollment eligibility, or at the study period end.
RESULTS: There were 5384 patients in the LABA/LAMA cohort and 473,388 patients in the LABA/ICS cohort.
Unadjusted annual exacerbation rates were 2.87 events per person-year (standard deviation [SD] 5.14) in the LABA/LAMA cohort and 1.68 (SD 9.82) in the LABA/ICS cohort.
The adjusted incidence rate ratio was 0.98 (95% confidence interval 0.95-1.01) for LABA/LAMA compared with LABA/ICS.CONCLUSIONS: The LABA/LAMA combination had similar effectiveness to LABA/ICS as measured by exacerbation rates in COPD patients.
Epub 2017 Nov 20.[The Overrated Impact of Inhaled Substances (LABA, LAMA, ICS) on Exacerbation Rates in COPD].[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]Köhler D(1), Dellweg D(2).Author information:(1)Schmallenberg, Winkhausen.(2)Fachkrankenhaus Kloster Grafschaft, Schmallenberg.
This review aimed at comparing these studies and to elaborate the relevance and reduction of exacerbations rates by LABA, LAMA and ICS application through effect size calculation by means of Cohens' d. These studies display a common pattern.
The impact of LABA's, LAMA's and ICS on exacerbation rates in COPD patients is obviously overrated.
In dieser Übersicht werden diese Studien gegenübergestellt und die Relevanz der Reduktion der Exazerbationsraten durch LABA, LAMA und ICS durch Bewertung ihrer Effektstärke mittels Cohen’s d bewertet.
Die Wirkung von LABA, LAMA und ICS auf die Exazerbationsrate bei COPD ist deutlich überschätzt.
RESULTS: The pharmacy cost of COPD increased from 2004 to 2010 due to the increased utilization of long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and fixed-dose combination of long-acting beta-agonist and inhaled corticosteroid (LABA/ICS), whereas the cost of all other COPD-related medications decreased.
The costs of both LAMA and LABA/ICS increased, while the cost for all other COPD-related medications decreased.
These findings suggest that the increased utilization of LAMA and LABA/ICS may have contributed to the decreased average number of hospital admissions and ICU admissions in COPD patients from 2004 to 2010.DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S147968PMCID: PMC5627724PMID: 29026296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of interest in this work.148.
This analysis assessed whether providing additional bronchodilation with the long acting muscarinic antagonist umeclidinium (UMEC) to patients treated with inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) therapy would improve disease stability compared with ICS/LABA therapy alone.
METHODS: This integrated post hoc analysis of four 12-week, randomized, double-blind trials (NCT01772134, NCT01772147, NCT01957163, NCT02119286) compared UMEC 62.5 µg with placebo added to open-label ICS/LABA in symptomatic patients with COPD (modified Medical Research Council dyspnea scale score ≥ 2).
Risk of a first CID was evaluated in the intent-to-treat (ITT) population and in patients stratified by Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) classification, exacerbation history and type of ICS/LABA therapy.
CONCLUSION: Symptomatic patients with COPD receiving ICS/LABA experience frequent deteriorations.
Additional bronchodilation with UMEC significantly reduced the risk of CID and provided greater short-term stability versus continued ICS/LABA therapy in these patients.
Expert commentary: Data from recent studies of three LABA/LAMA combinations, reviewed here, indicate that dual bronchodilation may be beneficial above and beyond both the monotherapies and LABA/ICS combinations, in providing improvements in lung function and PROs for patients with COPD, which may encourage a shift away from the use of ICS in COPD management, in particular for non-exacerbating patients.
METHODS: This retrospective study of patients with COPD, newly initiated on long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) monotherapy or inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist (ICS/LABA) combination therapy, assessed baseline demographics, clinical characteristics, and exacerbations during 12 months prior to first LAMA or ICS/LABA use.
In total, 283 (19.3%) and 160 (10.9%) patients had moderate and severe exacerbations at baseline, respectively, in the LAMA cohort, compared with 482 (21.3%) and 289 (12.8%) patients in the ICS/LABA cohort.
Significantly more patients initiated open-triple therapy in the LAMA cohort compared with the ICS/LABA cohort (226 [15.4%] versus 174 [7.7%]; P<0.001); results were similar in the post hoc analyses.
Mean (standard deviation) time to open-triple therapy was 79.8 (89.0) days in the LAMA cohort and 122.9 (105.4) days in the ICS/LABA cohort (P<0.001).
DISCUSSION: In this population, patients with COPD are more likely to initiate open-triple therapy following LAMA therapy, compared with ICS/LABA therapy.
ICS in combination with a LABA is also indicated for prevention of exacerbations, but the use of ICS is associated with an increased risk of adverse events such as pneumonia, and offers limited benefits beyond those provided by LABA or LAMA monotherapy.
We also discuss a new proposed treatment paradigm for the management of COPD that takes into account this recent evidence and adopts a more cautious approach to the use of ICS.
In alignment with GOLD 2017, we suggest that ICS should be reserved for patients with concomitant asthma or in whom exacerbations persist despite treatment with LABA/LAMA.DOI: 10.1186/s12931-017-0601-2PMCID: PMC5477752PMID: 28633665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]157.
ICS were prescribed as ICS/long-acting beta-agonists combination for 29.1% of patients or as monotherapy for 15.5%.
ICS-containing regimens were prescribed to patients with a history of pneumonia and comorbid conditions for whom the risks of ICS therapy may outweigh the benefits.
The clinical reality of prescribing indicates that ICS are often prescribed outside current guideline recommendations for many patients newly diagnosed with COPD in the UK.
The type of medication was assessed as: short-acting β-agonist (SABA) or short-acting muscarinic antagonist (SAMA) only, long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), long-acting β-agonist (LABA), LABA/LAMA, inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), ICS/LABA, ICS/LAMA/LABA, or other.
The ICS/LAMA/LABA (32.9%) and ICS/LABA (27.7%) combinations were the most common medications used, followed by LABA/LAMA (11.3%), SABA or SAMA (7.9%), LABA (6.4%), LAMA (5.8%), and ICS (4.3%).
The types of medication most commonly used in each Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) 2013 category were ICS/LABA (A: 32.7%; B: 19.8%; C: 25.7%; D: 28.2%) and ICS/LAMA/LABA (A: 17.3%; B: 30.2%; C: 33%; D: 41.1%).
CONCLUSION: COPD management in specialist practice in Latin America does not follow the current guideline recommendations and there is an overuse of ICSs in patients with COPD from this region.
Triple therapy with long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) + long-acting beta-agonist/inhaled corticosteroid (LABA/ICS) was the most frequent prescribed treatment at all study visits, irrespective of patient's exacerbation history.
The adherence was particularly low in less severe, non-frequent exacerbating patients mostly for ICS overuse, and was higher in high-risk, frequent exacerbating COPD patients.
In all groups, the majority were treated with combined long-acting beta agonist/ICS (> 50%).
CONCLUSION: Our study confirms poor adherence to guidelines regarding treatment with an overuse of ICS and important barriers to implementation.
eCollection 2015.LAMA/LABA vs ICS/LABA in the treatment of COPD in Japan based on the disease phenotypes.
However, ICSs increase the risk of pneumonia.
Thus, sputum or blood eosinophil counts might identify a subpopulation in which ICSs could have potentially deleterious effects as well as a subpopulation that benefits from ICSs.
In this review, I propose one plausible approach to position ICSs and LABAs/LAMAs in clinical practice, based on both the extent of airflow obstruction and the presence of an asthma component or airway eosinophilic inflammation.
CONCLUSION: A suboptimal adherence to GOLD guideline 2011, with overprescription of ICS, was identified.
Patients in both groups were just as likely to receive inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs), but patients with incompatible spirometry were less likely to receive long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) (P<0.001) or LABA/ICS (P = 0.002) combinations.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing once-daily administered ICS/LABA and LAMA in adults with COPD.DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias in each study.
Both studies used the same combination of inhaled ICS/LABA (fluticasone furoate and vilanterol 100/25 mcg once daily; FF/VI) versus LAMA (18 mcg tiotropium; TIO).
We found no statistically significant differences between ICS/LABA and LAMA for improvement in symptoms measured by the COPD Assessment Test (CAT score) nor for FEV₁ (change from baseline trough in 24-hour weighted mean on treatment day 84).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Based on analysis of primary and secondary outcomes, we are uncertain whether once-daily ICS/LABA, combined in one inhaler, has a different efficacy or adverse effect profile compared to LAMA for treatment of people with COPD.
There are now also "triple inhaler" fixed dose combinations (containing a LABA, LAMA and ICS) under development and already being made available in clinical practice, with the first such triple combination having been approved in India.
Epub 2018 Jul 17.Clinical characteristics and medication patterns in patients with COPD prior to initiation of triple therapy with ICS/LAMA/LABA: A retrospective study.
At the index date, most patients were using a LAMA (n = 13,353 [97.5%]) and combination ICS/LABA (n = 13,292 [97.0%]) MITT.
Overall, 90.4% of patients used a LABA, LAMA, LAMA/LABA, or ICS/LABA or had a moderate or severe exacerbation at any time during the baseline period, indicating that approximately 10% of patients initiated MITT without prior bronchodilator use or exacerbation history.
Over 65% of patients with an eosinophil measurement had a value ≥ 150 cells/μL.CONCLUSION: Overall, it appears that in this patient population, ICS/LAMA/LABA as triple therapy is being initiated after use of a bronchodilator and/or after an exacerbation event, in accordance with accepted treatment recommendations.
New inhaled ICS/LABA/LAMA FDCs, including fluticasone furoate/vilanterol/umeclidinium, budesonide/formoterol/glycopyrronium and beclometasone/formoterol/glycopyrronium, are in Phase III of clinical development for COPD.
Future prospective studies should assess efficacy and safety of triple ICS/LABA/LAMA therapy in selected COPD phenotypes.
According to the European experts, both LABA/LAMA and LABA/LAMA/ICS could be the first choice for these patients.
Treatment containing ICS was found only appropriate in patients with FEV1<50% and ≥2 moderate exacerbations or 1 severe exacerbation/year.
The most commonly prescribed regimens were inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist (ICS/LABA) + long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA); (ACOS 30%, asthma 1.4%, and COPD 32%), ICS/LABA (19%, 41.5%, and 17%, respectively), and LAMA (6%, 0.4%, and 19%, respectively); 18% of patients with ACOS were not prescribed an ICS.
Trials that reported outcomes in patients with mild to moderate COPD included 2 trials of long-acting β-agonists (LABAs) (n = 3174), 1 RCT of LABAs and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) (n = 1097), 5 RCTs of the long acting muscarinic antagonist tiotropium (n = 4592), and 6 RCTs of ICS (n = 3983).
Compared to baseline am FEV1 of 1.38 L (95% CI 1.14-1.61 L), both ICS/LABA/LAMA and ICS/LABA in conjunction with bisoprolol showed statistically significant mean falls of 100 ml (1.28 L, 95% CI 1.03-1.53 L), and 120 ml, respectively (1.26 L, 95% CI 1.01-1.51 L); equalling and exceeding the MCID of 100 ml, respectively.
Single triple therapy has been shown to be superior at reducing exacerbations and improving quality of life compared to LABA/LAMA, especially in patients with a prior history of frequent exacerbations and blood eosinophilia, who have ICS responsive disease.
Since triple therapy is also better than ICS/LABA at reducing exacerbations and improving lung function, symptoms, and quality of life, this brings into question the rationale for using ICS/LABA.
Yang SN(1)(2), Ko HK(3)(4), Hsiao YH(3)(4), Su KC(3)(4), Chang YL(1)(5), Huang HY(6)(7), Perng DW(3)(4), Chung MI(2).Author information:(1)Department of Pharmacy, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.(2)School of Pharmacy, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, ROC.(3)Department of Chest Medicine, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.(4)School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.(5)Department and Institute of Pharmacology, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.(6)College of Public Health, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.(7)Biostatistics Task Force, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.BACKGROUND: Whether the beneficial effects of long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) are better than those of long-acting beta agonist/corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) in preventing exacerbations in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) remains unclear.
This study aimed to assess the risk of exacerbations in moderate to severe COPD patients receiving LAMA versus LABA/ICS.METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients diagnosed with COPD (2008-2010).
The inclusion criteria were age ≥ 40 years, forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) 30% to 80% of predicted value and at least three prescriptions for COPD medication, including LAMA or LABA/ICS.RESULTS: Of the 557 COPD patients screened, 90 patients were enrolled in the analysis.
The demographic characteristics of patients receiving LABA/ICS or LAMA were similar.
The all exacerbation rates was significantly higher in patients with global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease stage II COPD treated with LABA/ICS than in those treated with LAMA (p = 0.001), regardless of previous exacerbation history.
Patients with previous exacerbation history showed an independent increase in the risk of moderate or severe exacerbation compared with those without exacerbation history (hazard ratio 3.86, 95% CI 1.75-8.53, p = 0.001).CONCLUSION: In comparison with LABA/ICS, LAMA is beneficial in reducing exacerbation risk for moderate COPD.
We identified adults hospitalized for COPD from 2006 to 2009 who were newly prescribed a fixed LABA/ICS combination (double therapy).
We identified 5717 new users of LABA/ICS of which 31.9% initiated triple therapy.
In conclusion, the addition of tiotropium to LABA/ICS did not reduce COPD exacerbations compared to LABA/ICS alone.
2018 Dec;23(12):1088-1089.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Combination long-acting beta -agonist/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LABA/LAMA) has demonstrated superior clinical outcomes over LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients; however, data from blinded randomized controlled trials on direct switching from LABA/ICS to LABA/LAMA are lacking.
Patients received triple therapy (long acting muscarinic antagonist and long-acting beta-agonist/inhaled corticosteroid [ICS]) for 6 weeks, and were randomized to continue triple therapy or stepwise withdrawal of the ICS (dual bronchodilator group).
RESULTS: Eight hundred and eighty-eight patients in the WISDOM study had a moderate/severe exacerbation after the complete ICS withdrawal visit; 360 of them contributed at least one FEV1 measure per week for the 8 weeks before and after the event and are included in this analysis.
METHOD: A coordinator group was formed, which systematically reviewed the scientific evidence with the aim of identifying areas of uncertainty about the efficacy of ICs, the adverse effects associated with their use and criteria for withdrawal.
The withdrawal of ICs was uniformly agreed to be feasible.
AREAS COVERED: Although the existence of asthma in patients with asthma-COPD overlap syndrome (ACOS) clearly supports the use of anti-inflammatory treatment (typically an ICS/LABA combination, as ICS monotherapy is usually not indicated for COPD), the current level of ICS/LABA use is not consistent with the prevalence of ACOS in the COPD population.
Data have recently become available showing the comparative efficacy of fixed bronchodilator combinations (long acting muscarinic antagonist [LAMA]/LABA with ICS/LABA combinations).
Additionally, new information has emerged on ICS withdrawal without increased risk of exacerbations, under cover of effective bronchodilation.
Patients who remain symptomatic or present with exacerbations despite effectively delivered LAMA/LABA treatment may require additional drug therapy, such as ICS or phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitors.
When prescribing an ICS/LABA, the risk:benefit ratio should be considered in individual patients.
In 2015, the most common medication was ICS (45.7% of the patients), followed by LABA (36.5%).
The number of filled prescriptions per patient per year for LAMA (+7.8% per year) and LABA (+4.9%) increased, while they decreased for SAMA (-6.3%) and SABA (-3.8%), and remained relatively constant for ICS.
Single-inhaler ICS/LABA had the highest rate of increase (11.6% per year), and comprised 53.7% of the total costs of inhalers in 2015.
In 2015, 28.5% of the patient time was on combination therapies, with 7.1% on triple ICS/LABA/LAMA therapy.
The low utilization of LAMA and high utilization of combination therapies (particularly those containing ICS) do not seem to be aligned with COPD treatment guidelines.
Papers reported the cost effectiveness of long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) monotherapy (n = 6), phosphodiesterase (PDE)-4 inhibitors (n = 4), long-acting beta agonist/inhaled corticosteroid (LABA/ICS) combinations (n = 4), LABA monotherapy (n = 2) and LABA/LAMA combinations (n = 2).
METHODS: To reduce heterogeneity, the current analyses include patients receiving indacaterol/glycopyrronium at baseline, and who, prior to the study, were receiving no COPD maintenance medication ('none'), LABA or LAMA monotherapy ('mono'), LABA plus inhaled corticosteroid (ICS; 'LABA/ICS'), or triple therapy ('triple').
RESULTS: A total of 2724 patients were included in the baseline analyses: 795, 954, 598 and 377 in the 'none', 'mono', 'LABA/ICS' and 'triple' subgroups, respectively.
Over the 1-year follow-up, the majority of patients in all four subgroups did not exacerbate (exacerbation rates 0.16, 0.19, 0.21, and 0.26 in the 'none', 'mono', 'LABA/ICS' and 'triple' groups, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the results support the GOLD recommendations in suggesting that a switch from a mono-bronchodilator or LABA plus ICS to LABA/LAMA FDC is a valid treatment option for patients with COPD.
Preliminary clinical studies suggest that inhaled LAMAs may be comparable to long-acting beta2-agonists (LABAs) as an add-on therapy in patients not controlled by inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) alone, and may also have added benefit in patients not controlled on combined ICS-LABA.
SUMMARY: Accumulating evidence supports the use of inhaled LAMAs as an add-on therapy in patients with asthma, who remain symptomatic despite guideline-based therapy with ICS with or without LABAs.
EXPERT OPINION: Several studies have confirmed the good safety profile of bronchodilators available both in monotherapy and in association with other bronchodilators of different classes or with ICS despite the device used.
BACKGROUND: The cardiovascular (CV) safety of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is controversial because different studies have suggested that ICSs either increase or reduce the risk of CV events in COPD patients.
In this meta-analysis, we assess the CV safety of ICS therapy in COPD.METHODS: A meta-analysis of randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled trials of ICS treatment for COPD that include at least 4 weeks of follow-up was performed.
A random-effects model was used to evaluate the effects of ICS treatment on CV events.
CV events were documented in each trial, and the relative risk (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for ICSs were estimated.
The risk of CV events was not different between ICS-treated and control groups (RR: 0.99; 95% CI: 0.93 to 1.06; P=0.801).
In a subgroup analysis, there were no significant differences in CV events between an ICS combined with long-acting beta agonist (LABA) (ICS + LABA) group and an LABA-only group (RR: 1.00; 95% CI: 0.90 to 1.10; P=0.930), as well as between a combination group (ICS + LABA) and a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) combined with LABA (LAMA + LABA) group (RR: 0.78; 95% CI: 0.39 to 1.55; P=0.473).
In addition, there was no difference in the risk of CV events between ICS treatment and control groups (RR: 0.99; 95% CI: 0.90 to 1.09; P=0.872).CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that ICSs do not increase the risk of CV events in COPD patients.
This study describes COPD treatment in France, focusing on identifying initial treatment modifications in patients with COPD who either initiated long-acting bronchodilator (LABD)-based therapy or escalated to triple therapy (long acting muscarinic antagonist [LAMA] + long-acting beta-agonist [LABA] + inhaled corticosteroid [ICS]).METHODS: This retrospective analysis of patients with COPD in a large general practitioner database (IQVIA Longitudinal Patient Database) in France included two cohorts: Cohort 1 - new initiators of LABD-based therapy (LAMA, LABA, LAMA + LABA, LAMA + ICS, LABA + ICS or LAMA + LABA + ICS); Cohort 2 - patients escalating to triple therapy from mono- or dual-bronchodilator-based maintenance treatment.
In Cohort 1, 7.0% of patients were continuous users, 46.5% discontinued permanently, 28.5% discontinued temporarily, 2.8% augmented (added LAMA and/or LABA and/or ICS), and 15.2% switched therapy.
OBJECTIVES: To review current available evidence about the treatment effect of fixed LABA/LAMA FDCs on HRQoL.METHODS: A systematic literature search for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) about the impact of LABA/LAMA FDCs versus placebo, LABA or LAMA or LABA/ICS on HRQoL in Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients has been performed.
In 5 out of 6 RCTs having LABA/ICS as comparators, LABA/LAMA FDC had a similar effect and only 1 showed significant improvement in HRQL compared to LABA/ICS FDC.CONCLUSION: LABA/LAMA FDCs may be helpful in improving HRQoL, but because of the heterogeneity of performed trials, strong conclusions cannot be drawn.
We investigated prescribing and discontinuation patterns of long-acting bronchodilators and ICS in COPD patients according to exacerbation frequency.
This study population was stratified according to consistency of exacerbation occurrence after 12, 24, 36, and 48 months of follow-up and the groups were described according to use of ICS, long-acting beta-agonists (LABA), and long acting beta agonistss (LAMA), and combinations thereof.
Upon inclusion, 70% received ICS-containing regimens, in combination with LABA (23%) or both LABA and LAMA (41%).
The proportion of prevalent users of ICS-containing regimens decreased to 56% during follow-up among exacerbation-free individuals, while it increased to 86% in individuals who experienced at least one exacerbation annually.
Persistence to ICS-containing regimens was 58% after 4 years in individuals without exacerbations compared to 74% among those with annual exacerbations.
CONCLUSIONS: The extensive use of ICS and the relatively high persistence to ICS-containing regimens in individuals who had a decrease in exacerbation occurrence highlight a need for the development and implementation of de-escalation strategies in clinical practice.
This recommendation is based on evidence demonstrating that ICS, especially when prescribed in fixed-dose combinations (FDC) with long-acting beta agonists (LABA), improve quality of life (QoL), decrease exacerbations and hospitalisations, and have been associated with a trend towards a reduction in all-cause mortality.
Audit shows that routine prescribing practice frequently uses inhaler therapies outside current guidelines recommendations; severe to very severe disease constitutes about 20% of all COPD patients, but up to 75% of COPD patients are prescribed an ICS, with significant numbers given ICS/LABA as first-line maintenance therapy.
The role of ICS in the treatment paradigm for COPD is changing, driven by the growing evidence of increased risk of pneumonia, and the introduction of a new class of FDC; LABA and long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), which simplify dual bronchodilation and present a plausible alternative therapy.
As the evidence base for dual therapy bronchodilation expands, it is likely that maximal bronchodilation will move up the treatment algorithm and ICS reserved for those with more severe disease who are not controlled on dual therapy.
This review reassesses the role of ICS in the shifting treatment paradigm, in the context of alternative treatment options that provide maximal bronchodilation.
Since 2002, LAMA showed increasing popularity, while ICS alone exhibited an inverse trend.
CONCLUSION: This analysis confirmed a high symptom burden among patients with COPD and indicates some misalignment of prescribing with GOLD recommendations, particularly regarding the role of ICS/long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) and ICS/LABA + long acting muscarinic antagonist combinations across the different GOLD groups.
CONCLUSION: Triple therapy with TIO and ICSs/long-acting β-agonists was only slightly more efficacious than TIO monotherapy in treating patients with COPD.
Until recently, although recommended in guidelines for severe and unstable COPD patients, the clinical usefulness of the LABA/LAMA/ICS combination was a matter of debate.
Recent trials with fixed-dose combination inhalers containing fluticasonfuroate/vilanterol/umeclidinium or beclometasone/formoterol/glycopyrronium significantly reduced exacerbation rates and dyspnea scores and improved lung function as well as quality of life better than the LABA/ICS, LABA/LAMA comparators or the single compounds in selected COPD trial patients.
LABA/ICS- (inhalatives Kortikosteroid) Kombinationen haben ihren Stellenwert im Rahmen der Eskalation v. a. bei Patienten mit ≥ 2 Exazerbationen/Jahr.
Neuere Studien zu Dreifachfixkombinationen, die entweder Fluticason/Vilanterol/Umeclidinium oder Beclometason/Formoterol/Glycopyrronium enthalten, haben unser Wissen zur ICS-basierten Therapie der COPD erweitert.
Die inhalativen Triple-Therapien reduzierten im Vergleich zu LABA/ICS, zur LAMA-Monotherapie und zur LABA/LAMA-Kombination signifikant sowohl die Exazerbationsrate, als auch die Dyspnoe und verbesserten die Lungenfunktion (FEV1) sowie die Lebensqualität.
Die Domäne für die LABA/LAMA/ICS-Kombinationen ist die schwere COPD der Gruppen C + D.© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.
Patients identified as taking an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β agonist (LABA) inhaler and a long acting muscarinic agonist (LAMA) inhaler were changed to a LAMA/LABA inhaler and an ICS inhaler.
Among participants with nonaligned regimens, 46% reported underuse, predominately owing to lack of long-acting inhalers in GOLD category D. Of the 54% reporting overuse, 95% were treated with nonindicated ICS-containing regimens.
Nonalignment was driven largely by overuse of ICS regimens in milder disease and lack of long-acting inhalers in severe disease.
The latest GOLD 2018 (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Disease) guidelines recommend the triple therapy in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in patients of group D who despite the combination of two drugs: LAMA/LABA or ICS/LABA continue to have persistent symptoms or suffer from further frequent exacerbations.
Expert commentary: A 20% reduction in the risk of moderate or severe exacerbation was found in patients receiving triple therapy compared to the ICS/LABA combination and LAMA monotherapy.
Adherence to long-acting beta-agonists and/or inhaled corticosteroids (LABA and/or ICS) and health-care utilization were analysed 1 year before and 2 years after initiation of Tiotropium.
Hospitalization costs decreased 1 year following treatment initiation only among adherent patient when their adherence to LABA and/or ICS improved (β = -463.6, P = 0.033).
This cost did not change significantly in the consecutive second year (β = 206.3, P = 0.583).CONCLUSIONS: Adherence to Tiotropium was associated with decreased hospitalizations only among patients who improved their adherence to LABA and/or ICS as well.
LABA/LAMA and ICS/LABA therapies had multiple fold increases in the success rate compared to other drug classes and sizably decreased the risk-adjusted cost of drug development.
Epub 2018 Oct 24.Cost-effectiveness of umeclidinium as add-on to ICS/LABA therapy in COPD: A UK perspective.
RESULTS: For the lifetime horizon, compared with FF/VI, FP/SAL and ICS/LABAs, addition of UMEC was associated with incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) of £4050, £7210 and £5780, respectively, and incremental costs per life year gain of £3380, £6020 and £4940.
CONCLUSIONS: Addition of UMEC to various ICS/LABA treatments was associated with higher cost than ICS/LABA alone, but was cost-effective in most scenarios.
Although the benefits of adding inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) to LB are still unclear, patients who experience repeated exacerbations are suggested to add ICS to their LB treatment.
The objective of this study is to analyze whether adding ICS to LB therapy reduces mortality.
The first prescription for LB or ICS following discharge was defined as the index prescription.
A 4-day time window was used to classify patients into "LB alone" or "LB plus ICS" initiators.
RESULTS: Among the 18615 adults enrolled, 12207 initiated "LB plus ICS" therapy and 6408 "LB alone."
Crude mortality rates were 110 and 143 cases per 1000 person-years in the "LB plus ICS" and "LB alone" groups, respectively.
Corresponding figures for those patients taking ICS/LABA were 20% (n=583) versus 48% (n=1367), respectively.
By contrast, the recommendation of ICS in combination with long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) is not evidence-based.
METHODS: Four subgroup analyses were performed: Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) 2/3, GOLD A/B/C/D, treatment naive/not treatment naive and receiving inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) at baseline/not receiving ICS at baseline.
Moreover, lung-function outcomes were generally greater in those patients who had been receiving previous long-acting bronchodilator and/or ICS maintenance treatment.
METHODS: Patients with moderate to severe COPD already taking ICS/LABA were randomized to receive add-on therapy in cross-over fashion with either TIO 18 µg od or ACL 322 µg bid for 2-3 weeks each.
Given the current concerns over unnecessary inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use in COPD, we also touch briefly on the use of blood eosinophils as a biomarker for identifying those patients with COPD already using LAMA/LABA therapy for whom the addition of ICS might be of benefit.
Individuals were excluded if they were prescribed an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or ICS/LABA two months prior to the index date or were diagnosed with cystic fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, or asthma.
By contrast, the cumulative incidence of stroke was significantly lower in those treated with LABA plus ICS than those treated without (adjusted hazard ratio 0.75, 95% CI 0.60-0.94, p = 0.014).CONCLUSIONS: Among COPD patients, the use of inhaled SABA is associated with an increased risk of stroke, and combination treatment with inhaled LABA and ICS relates to a risk reduction.
Further prospective research is needed to verify whether LABA plus ICS confers protection against stroke in patients with COPD.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130102PMCID: PMC4497597PMID: 26158649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared that no competing interests exist.347.
Expert opinion: Current guidelines place inhaled LAMAs as adjunctive maintenance therapy in symptomatic asthma not controlled by an ICS and/or a LTRA.
Additional LAMA agents are likely to seek a maintenance indication perhaps as a combined inhaler with an ICS or with an ICS and a LABA.
Triple therapy was prescribed to 32.9% (treatment category E) of patients and 29.8% received a combination of two treatments (treatment categories C or D); ICS-containing regimen were present for 44% of patients altogether.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy and safety of adding a LAMA to ICS compared with adding a LABA for adults whose asthma is not well controlled on ICS alone.
The most recent search was conducted in April 2015.SELECTION CRITERIA: We searched for parallel and cross-over RCTs in which adults whose asthma was not well controlled with ICS alone were randomised to receive LAMA add-on or LABA add-on for at least 12 weeks.
These four trials were between 14 and 24 weeks long, all comparing tiotropium (usually Respimat) with salmeterol on top of medium doses of ICS.Studies reporting exacerbations requiring OCS showed no difference between the two add-ons, but our confidence in the effect was low due to inconsistency between studies and because the confidence intervals (CI) included significant benefit of either treatment (odds ratio (OR) 1.05, 95% CI 0.50 to 2.18; 1753 participants; 3 studies); three more people per 1000 might have an exacerbation on LAMA, but the CIs ranged from 29 fewer to 61 more.
Given the much larger evidence base for LABA versus placebo for people whose asthma is not well controlled on ICS, the current evidence is not strong enough to say that LAMA can be substituted for LABA as add-on therapy.
The cohort comprised 17,258 patients [LABA (8%), LAMA (39%) and ICS/LABA (54%)] with similar age, body mass index and dyspnoea distribution.
Distinct patterns of treatment augmentations were noted, whereby LABA users typically received dual therapy before moving to triple therapy, while LAMA users moved to triple therapy by directly adding an ICS/LABA.
Accurate bench-to-bedside plans are needed also in the development of triple combination therapies for asthma and COPD, in which the presence of an ICS in the formulation may further modulate the beneficial interaction between the LABA and the LAMA.DOI: 10.1007/s12325-019-01119-wPMCID: PMC6860506PMID: 31654332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]360.
Triple therapy with a long acting beta2-agonist (LABA), long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and ICS is commonly prescribed for symptomatic COPD patients experiencing regular exacerbations.
BDP/FF/GB significantly reduced exacerbation rates in three clinical trials (1-year duration) compared against LAMA monotherapy (20% exacerbation reduction), ICS/LABA combination (23% exacerbation reduction), and LAMA/LABA combination (15% exacerbation reduction).
RESULTS: In 'GOLD A' patients not receiving ICS, differences favored indacaterol versus tiotropium (trough FEV1 0.05 L; rescue medication use -0.41 puffs/day; TDI total score 0.94 points; SGRQ total score -3.13 units, all p < 0.01).
In 'GOLD B, no ICS' patients, compared with tiotropium, indacaterol treatment increased trough FEV1 (0.055 L, p < 0.05) and permitted a larger reduction in rescue medication use (-0.81 puffs/day, p = 0.004).
In all patients, and in patients not using ICS, differences favored indacaterol for all variables.
Mean PDC for the ICS/LABA and LAMA component at 12 months was 49% (0.49±0.31; median, 0.47) and 54% (0.54±0.33; 0.56), respectively.
This analysis evaluated the impact of a direct switch to once-daily indacaterol/glycopyrronium 110/50 µg (IND/GLY) from previous monotherapy with a long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) or long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) or with an LABA and an inhaled corticosteroid (LABA + ICS) on reducing CID.METHODS: CRYSTAL was a 12-week, prospective, multicenter, randomized, open-label study conducted in clinical practice settings.
Compared with LABA + ICS, IND/GLY also reduced the risk of CID (D1: OR 0.76 [95% CI: 0.56-1.02]; D2: OR 0.75 [95% CI: 0.56-1.00]; D3: OR 0.67 [95% CI: 0.51-0.89]).CONCLUSION: In this analysis, IND/GLY reduced the risk of a CID in moderate COPD patients after direct switch from LABA + ICS or LABA or LAMA in real-life clinical practice.
When the researchers followed up on patients after 1 year, 2028 (6.3%) of newly-diagnosed patients were being treated with triple inhaled therapy incorporating ICSs-42% of these patients had started triple therapy immediately upon diagnosis.
Being an older male and having been prescribed with a ICS/LABA FDC at diagnosis were strong predictors of triple therapy use within 1 year from the diagnosis.
AREAS COVERED: Some pivotal clinical trials have found tiotropium effective as an add-on medication for low-to-medium doses of ICS for treating symptomatic asthma and asthma that remains uncontrolled despite ICS plus LABA therapy.
METHODS: We conducted a cohort and nested case-control study among patients with COPD aged 40 years or older to compare the risk of all-cause mortality among users of aclidinium and other COPD medications with the risk among users of long-acting beta agonists (LABA), in the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) in the United Kingdom (2012-2017).RESULTS: Mortality rates per 1,000 person-years were 32.9 for aclidinium, 43.8 for tiotropium, 38.0 for other LAMA, 47.1 for LABA/ICS, and 38.1 for LABA.
The RR of death compared with current use of LABA was 0.54 (confidence interval [95% CI], 0.40-0.72) for aclidinium, 0.96 (95% CI, 0.76-1.21) for tiotropium, 0.76 (95% CI, 0.58-0.99) for other LAMA, and 1.08 (95% CI, 0.90-1.31) for LABA/ICS.
Decreased risk for death observed among users of aclidinium was driven by overall current single use (RR = 0.41; 95% CI, 0.22-0.79), which corresponded to 26% of the aclidinium users (<15 cases) and not by multiple use (RR = 1.02; 95% CI, 0.71-1.48).CONCLUSION: Use of aclidinium, tiotropium, other LAMA, or LABA/ICS was not associated with an increased risk of all-cause mortality as compared with the use of LABAs.
The results of studies on severe asthma showed that adding tiotropium to a treatment with high doses of an ICS plus LABA results in further improvement in lung function, increases the time to the first severe exacerbation of asthma and to worsening of asthma, and improves asthma control.
Adding tiotropium to an ICS or ICS plus LABA improves lung function, symptoms, and asthma control, and in severe asthma, it increases the time to exacerbations, with good safety profile.
2020 Jan 21;15:155-156.BACKGROUND: This study aims to compare the effects of single inhaler triple therapy comprised of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs), and long acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMAs) with dual therapies comprised of either LABA/LAMA, ICS/LABA or separate ICS/LABA plus LAMA triple therapy.
Single inhaler triple therapy was associated with a significantly lower risk of COPD exacerbation compared with LABA/LAMA (rate ratio, 0.69; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.55 to 0.87, I2 =85%), and ICS/LABA (rate ratio, 0.81; 95% CI 0.73 to 0.89, I2 =29%) dual therapy.
Single inhaler triple therapy led to a more significant improvement in lung function and quality of life compared with LABA/LAMA and ICS/LABA dual therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of single inhaler triple therapy for COPD patients can result in lower rates of moderate or severe exacerbations of COPD as well as improved lung function and quality of life compared with dual therapy with LABA/LAMA or ICS/LABA.DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S200846PMCID: PMC6628970PMID: 31371939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest in this work.407.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) from tiotropium added to inhaled long-acting beta agonists (LABAs) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) in a nationwide population with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).PATIENTS AND METHODS: This nested case-control study included 65,966 patients with COPD treated with LABAs and ICSs identified from the Taiwan nationwide health care claims database from January 1, 2007, through June 30, 2011.
CONCLUSION: Tiotropium newly added to LABA/ICS combination therapy was associated with an increased cardiovascular risk in patients with COPD.Copyright © 2018 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
Evidence from several Phase III trials in the adult and paediatric population has shown that tiotropium is well tolerated and significantly improves a range of endpoints as an add-on treatment to ICS therapy, regardless of baseline characteristics and clinical phenotypes.
Trough FEV1 was also evaluated by ICS use and EOS subgroup.
Overall, ≈ 50% of patients used ICSs.
At day 169, no notable variations were observed in trough FEV1 least squares mean differences between EOS subgroups versus placebo for UMEC/VI, UMEC and VI; results according to ICS use were similar.
EOS count did not appear to predict bronchodilator response in either ICS users or non-users.
Abbreviations: 5-LOi: 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor; ACOS: asthma - COPD overlap syndrome; B2AR: Beta2 adrenergic receptors; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; cGMP: cyclic guanosine monophosphate; CI: confidence interval; COPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; CRS : chronic rhinosinusitis; cys-LT: cysteinyl leukotrienes; DPI: dry powder inhaler; EMA: European Medicines Agency; FDA: US Food and Drug Administration; FDC: fixed-dose combination; FeNO: exhaled nitric oxide; FEV1: forced expiratory volume in one second; FVC: forced vital capacity; GM-CSF: granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor; ICS : inhaled corticosteroids; IL: interleukin; ILC2: Type 2 innate lymphoid cells; IP3: Inositol triphosphate; IRR: incidence rate ratio; KOLD: Korean Obstructive Lung Disease; LABA: long-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; LAMA: long acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; LRA: leukotriene receptor antagonist; LT: leukotrienes; MDI: metered-dose inhalers; MN: M-subtype muscarinic receptors; MRA: muscarinic receptor antagonist; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NEB: nebulization; OR: odds ratio; PDE: phosphodiesterase; PEFR: peak expiratory flow rate; PGD2: prostaglandin D2; PRN: as needed; RR: risk ratio; SABA: short-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; SAMA: short-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; SDMI: spring-driven mist inhaler; Th1: T helper cell 1 lymphocyte; Th2: T helper cell 2 lymphocytes; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor alpha; US : United States.
eCollection 2016.Functional respiratory imaging to assess the interaction between systemic roflumilast and inhaled ICS/LABA/LAMA.Vos W(1), Hajian B(2), De Backer J(1), Van Holsbeke C(1), Vinchurkar S(1), Claes R(2), Hufkens A(2), Parizel PM(3), Bedert L(4), De Backer W(2).Author information:(1)FLUIDDA nv, Groeningenlei, Kontich, University Hospital Antwerp, Wilrijkstraat, Edegem, Belgium.(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, University Hospital Antwerp, Wilrijkstraat, Edegem, Belgium.(3)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Antwerp, Wilrijkstraat, Edegem, Belgium.(4)Department of Respiratory Medicine, ZNA Middelheim Hospital, Antwerp, Belgium.
Functional respiratory imaging (FRI)-based aerosol deposition showed that enhanced ventilation leads to more peripheral particle deposition of ICS/LABA/LAMA in the better-ventilated areas (t=2.407, P=0.024).
The local reduction in hyperinflation induces a redistribution of ventilation and aerosol deposition, leading to enhanced efficacy of the concomitant ICS/LABA/LAMA therapy.
Sixteen symptomatic, never-smoking asthmatics, aged 75 or over with irreversible airflow limitation despite the use of high-dose ICS plus LABA, were analyzed.
Tio-Res also resulted in statistically significant improvements in respiratory resistance at 5 Hz (R5), respiratory resistance at 20 Hz (R20), R5-R20, low-frequency reactant indices at 5 Hz (X5), resonant frequency (Fres) and low-frequency reactance area (ALX).CONCLUSIONS: Our retrospective study suggests that Tio-Res improves symptoms, pulmonary function, and respiratory impedance in symptomatic asthmatics aged 75 or over with irreversible airflow limitation despite the use of high-dose ICS plus LABA.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011437.pub2.long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) versus higher dose ICS for adults with asthma.
It is important to assess the safety and efficacy of LAMA add-on as an alternative to the prolonged use of higher doses of ICS, which are known to cause undesirable side effects in some people.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the effects of adding a LAMA to any dose of ICS versus increasing the dose of ICS, for uncontrolled asthma in adults.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We looked for parallel or cross-over randomised controlled trials lasting at least 12 weeks, in which adults whose asthma was not well controlled on ICS alone were randomised to treatment with LAMA add-on to ICS or with an increased dose of ICS.
The trial was performed in 210 patients with moderate to severe asthma and compared the use of the LAMA tiotropium bromide with double dose beclomethasone (an ICS) using a cross-over design and 14-week treatment periods.
Compared with people taking a double dose of ICS, fewer people taking a LAMA add-on had an exacerbation requiring treatment with OCS (odds ratio (OR) 0.57, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.22 to 1.43) or an exacerbation resulting in emergency department admission (OR 0.49, 95% CI 0.09 to 2.77), but the confidence intervals for both outcomes did not exclude the possibility that double dose ICS was more effective.
Those taking LAMA add-on scored slightly better on a scale measuring asthma control than those increasing their ICS dose (MD in change from baseline - 0.18, 95% CI - 0.34 to - 0.02), although the difference was clinically small.
There was moderate-quality evidence that participants' trough forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) was 100 mL better when taking LAMA add-on than with increased ICS dose (MD in change from baseline 0.10, 95% CI 0.03 to 0.17).AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Only one randomised trial was found, comparing tiotropium add-on to increased dose beclomethasone.
Differences between the treatments were too small or imprecise to understand whether adding a LAMA to ICS is safer or more effective than increasing the dose of ICS, and there is a possibility of carry-over effects due to the study's cross-over design.
LAMA add-on may lead to more improvement in lung function (FEV1) than an increased dose of ICS.The results of this review, alongside pending results from related reviews assessing the use of LAMA against other treatments, will help to define the role of these drugs in asthma management, and this review should be updated as results from future trials emerge.
METHODS: 2113 COPD subjects were categorized into four medication use patterns: triple therapy with tiotropium (TIO) plus long-acting beta-agonist/inhaled-corticosteroid (ICS ± LABA), tiotropium alone, ICS ± LABA, and short-acting bronchodilators.
A head-to-head analysis compared exacerbation risk among subjects using tiotropium vs. ICS ± LABA.RESULTS: In separate logistic regression models, the presence of gastroesophageal reflux, female gender, and higher scores on the St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire were significant predictors of exacerbator status within multiple medication groups (reflux: OR 1.62-2.75; female gender: OR 1.53 - OR 1.90; SGRQ: OR 1.02-1.03).
Subjects taking either ICS ± LABA or tiotropium had similar baseline characteristics, allowing comparison between these two groups.
In the head-to-head comparison, tiotropium users showed a trend towards lower rates of exacerbations (OR = 0.69 [95 % CI 0.45, 1.06], p = 0.09) compared with ICS ± LABA users, especially in subjects without comorbid asthma (OR = 0.56 [95% CI 0.31, 1.00], p = 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Each common COPD medication usage group showed unique risk factor patterns associated with increased risk of exacerbations, which may help clinicians identify subjects at risk.
Compared to similar subjects using ICS ± LABA, those taking tiotropium showed a trend towards reduced exacerbation risk, especially in subjects without asthma.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate safety and tolerability of tiotropium delivered via the Respimat(®) device, compared with placebo, each as add-on to at least ICS therapy, in a pooled sample of adults with symptomatic asthma at different treatment steps.
METHODS: Data were pooled from seven Phase II and III, randomised, double-blind, parallel-group trials of 12-52 weeks' treatment duration, which investigated once-daily tiotropium Respimat(®) (5 μg, 2.5 μg) versus placebo as add-on to different background maintenance therapy including at least ICS.
The proportions of patients with serious AEs were balanced across groups: tiotropium 5 μg, 4.0%; placebo 5 μg pool, 4.9%; tiotropium 2.5 μg, 2.0%; placebo 2.5 μg pool, 3.3%.CONCLUSION: Tiotropium Respimat(®) demonstrated safety and tolerability comparable with those of placebo, as add-on to at least ICS therapy, at different treatment steps in adults with symptomatic asthma.
Over time, 3 major changes were observed: (1) an increase in treatment category "No IMT", mostly for GOLD 1 or GOLD A categories (GOLD A: from 19.1% at T1 to 41.2% at T4); (2) an increase in treatment category "2 LABDs" for GOLD 2 to 4 and GOLD A to D categories (GOLD B: from 15.4% to 29.7%); (3) a decrease in ICS use ("1 LABD + ICS" or "2 LABDs + ICS"), mostly for GOLD 1 to 3 and GOLD A categories (GOLD A, 2 LABDs + ICS: from 35.3% to 11.1%).CONCLUSION: Changes over time in therapeutic profiles suggest that new evidence from scientific publications and recommendations may have had a rapid impact on clinical practice.
Tiotropium add-on to ICS plus a LABA has been shown to improve lung function and reduce exacerbation risk in patients with symptomatic asthma.
METHODS: Two randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, twin trials (NCT00772538 and NCT00776984) of once-daily tiotropium Respimat(®) 5 μg add-on to ICS plus a LABA were performed in parallel in patients with severe symptomatic asthma.
CONCLUSION: Once-daily tiotropium 5 μg compared with placebo improved lung function, reduced the risk of asthma exacerbations and asthma worsening, and improved asthma symptom control, independent of a broad range of baseline characteristics, as add-on to ICS plus LABAs in patients with severe symptomatic asthma.
The role of the anti-inflammatory and bronchodilator triple therapy, including a long acting ß2-agonist (LABA), a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), in the prevention of the exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is still not clearly established, and requires comparison with dual therapy (LABA-CSI or LABA-LAMA).
For patients with continued exacerbations, inhaled corticosteroids can be added to LABA-LAMA therapy.
Randomized trials comparing the effectiveness of this combination with the alternative combination of LABA with inhaled corticosteroid (LABA-ICS) have reported conflicting data, while there are no real-world comparative effectiveness and safety studies of these regimens in clinical practice settings.
Patients with acute exacerbations may benefit from the addition of inhaled corticosteroids, particularly those with elevated peripheral eosinophil levels.
Appropriate use of long-acting maintenance bronchodilators, inhaled corticosteroids, and pulmonary rehabilitation decreases symptoms, optimizes functional performance, and reduces exacerbation frequency.
doi: 10.1186/s12931-019-1029-7.Change in inhaled corticosteroid treatment and COPD exacerbations: an analysis of real-world data from the KOLD/KOCOSS cohorts.
BACKGROUND: This cohort study of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) was performed to evaluate the status of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) prescriptions following the 2017 revision of the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease guidelines.
suelangham@maverex.com.(2)Maverex Limited, Manchester, UK.(3)University of Michigan, Women's Respiratory Clinic, Ann Arbor, USA.(4)University of Dundee and Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee, UK.BACKGROUND: Guidelines recommend that treatment with a long-acting β2 agonist (LABA), a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), i.e. triple therapy, is reserved for a select group of symptomatic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who continue to exacerbate despite treatment with dual therapy (LABA/LAMA).
2019 May;155(5):1079-1080.BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) combination is commonly prescribed to treat COPD; therefore, we performed a meta-analysis on the effect of adding a long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (LAMA) to ICS/LABA combination in COPD.METHODS: Studies were identified by searching in different databases the randomized controlled trials that investigated the effect of ICS/LABA/LAMA combination in COPD.
The most effective steps to reduce functional decline were considered to be smoking cessation, followed by long-acting β2-agonist (LABA)/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), LAMA, LABA, and finally inhaled corticosteroid/LABA (P<0.01 for each paired comparison).
Multiple statistical models were applied to explain five treatment categories: A: no COPD treatment or short-acting bronchodilator(s) only; B: one long-acting bronchodilator (beta2 agonist, LABA or anticholinergic agent, LAMA); C: LABA+LAMA; D: a LABA or LAMA + inhaled corticosteroid (ICS); E: triple therapy (LABA+LAMA+ICS).RESULTS: Mean FEV1 was 60% predicted.
There are three main pharmaceutical classes currently available including long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), long-acting β2-agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
We hypothesized that blood neutrophils would help predict pneumonia risk in COPD.METHODS: A meta-analysis of randomized, double-blind clinical trials of COPD patients meeting the following criteria were selected from the GlaxoSmithKline trial registry: ≥1 inhaled corticosteroid-containing (ICS) arm (fluticasone propionate/salmeterol or fluticasone furoate/vilanterol), a control arm (non-ICS), pre-randomization blood neutrophil counts, ≥24-week duration.
The triple therapy term covers the combination of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), long-acting β-receptor agonist (LABA) and long-acting anticholinergic drug (LAMA) in one or in separate inhalers.
The Prospective cohort study for the real-life effectiveness evaluation of glycOpyrronium With indacatERol combination in the management of COPD in Canada (POWER) study evaluated the real-life effectiveness of indacaterol/glycopyrronium (IND/GLY) following a direct switch from a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA, tiotropium) or long-acting β2-agonist (LABA)/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) maintenance treatment (salmeterol/fluticasone [SFC]).METHODS: POWER was a single-cohort, prospective, multicenter, interventional study in which patients with moderate-to-severe COPD, who remained symptomatic on their current treatment of once-daily (od) tiotropium 18 µg or twice-daily (bid) SFC (any dose), were switched to treatment with open-label IND/GLY 110/50 µg od for 16 weeks.
Patients identified as taking an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β agonist (LABA) inhaler and a long-acting muscarinic agonist (LAMA) inhaler were changed to a LAMA/LABA inhaler and an ICS inhaler.
Concomitant inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use was permitted in all of the included studies (where stated); across the included studies, between 28% to 58% of participants were using ICS at baseline.
Epub 2019 Nov 2.Triple Therapy Versus Dual Bronchodilation and Inhaled Corticosteroids/Long-Acting β-Agonists in COPD: Accumulating Evidence from Network Meta-Analyses.
Recently, several meta-analyses have attempted to clarify the role of triple therapy containing a long-acting β-agonist (LABA), a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) delivered from a single inhaler in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), also considering that there is a big difference in the use of triple therapy between what is recommended by COPD guidelines or strategies and the prescriptive behaviour of clinicians.
PURPOSE: GOLD guidelines classify COPD patients into A-D groups based on health status as assessed by COPD Assessment Test (CAT) or mMRC tools and exacerbations and recommend single or dual long-acting bronchodilators as maintenance therapy, with additional inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) if the disease remains uncontrolled.
The eligibility criteria were as follows: (1) parallel-design randomized controlled trials (RCTs); (2) adults with stable COPD; (3) comparisons among long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs), inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), combined treatment (ICS/LAMA/LABA, LAMA/LABA, or ICS/LABA), or a placebo; and (4) study duration ≥ 12 weeks.
Bogart M(1), Stanford RH(1), Laliberté F(2), Germain G(2), Wu JW(2), Duh MS(3).Author information:(1)GlaxoSmithKline plc, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA, michael.r.bogart@gsk.com.(2)Groupe d'Analyse, Ltée, Montréal, QC, Canada.(3)Analysis Group Inc., Boston, MA, USA.INTRODUCTION: This longitudinal, retrospective cohort study of patients with COPD describes baseline characteristics, adherence, and persistence following initiation of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)/long-acting β2-agonists (LABA)/long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) from multiple inhaler triple therapy (MITT).METHODS: Patients aged ≥40 years receiving MITT between January 2012 and September 2015 were identified from the IQVIA™ Real-world Data Adjudicated Claims-USA database.
doi: 10.1177/1479973119867949.COPD patients prescribed inhaled corticosteroid in general practice: Based on disease characteristics according to guidelines?Savran O(1), Godtfredsen N(1)(2), Sørensen T(3), Jensen C(4), Ulrik CS(1)(2).Author information:(1)1 Respiratory Research Unit Hvidovre, Department of Respiratory Medicine, Hvidovre Hospital, Hvidovre, Denmark.(2)2 Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.(3)3 Værløse Lægehus, Værløse, Denmark.(4)4 Lægehuset Remisen, Præstø, Denmark.
In a primary care setting, our aim was to investigate characteristics of patients classified as having chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and currently being prescribed inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs).
In recent years, the importance of inhaled corticosteroids in the treatment of COPD changed again and again and currently it seems that they are gaining more importance again.
h.whittaker@imperial.ac.uk.(2)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, Emmanuel Kaye Building, 1b Manresa Road, London, SW3 6LR, UK.(3)MRC Biostatistics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.Rate of FEV1 decline in COPD is heterogeneous and the extent to which inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) influence the rate of decline is unclear.
Electronic address: richard.h.stanford@gsk.com.(2)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Optum, Inc, Eden Prairie, MN, USA.(3)US Value Evidence and Outcomes, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA; Division of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.BACKGROUND: Use of inhaled corticosteroids and long acting beta agonist (ICS/LABA) combination therapy has been shown to decrease the frequency of exacerbations in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Prescription data were described by the three maintenance inhaled medication classes used, inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), long-acting beta agonist (LABA), long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and their combinations, dual LABA-ICS, dual LAMA-LABA, or triple therapy LABA-ICS-LAMA.
eCollection 2019.Revefenacin: A Once-Daily, Long-Acting Bronchodilator For Nebulized Treatment Of COPD.Donohue JF(1), Mahler DA(2)(3), Sethi S(4).Author information:(1)Pulmonary Medicine, UNC School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(2)Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, USA.(3)Director of Respiratory Services, Valley Regional Hospital, Claremont, NH, USA.(4)University at Buffalo, State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, USA.Bronchodilation with muscarinic antagonists, β2-agonists, and inhaled corticosteroids remains the foundation of pharmaceutical treatment for patients with stable COPD.
Additionally, treatment selection was often inconsistent with guidelines, with over half of respondents not recommending inhaled corticosteroids in a patient with ACO and dominant features of asthma.
Medication subgroups were segmented by treatment status at screening: a) maintenance-naïve or on maintenance medications, b) inhaled corticosteroid [ICS]-free or ICS-treated, c) low or high albuterol use based on median run-in use (< 3.6 or ≥ 3.6 puffs/day).
CONCLUSION: All treatments were well tolerated over 52 weeks, and the safety profile of BGF MDI was generally comparable to dual long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)/long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/LABA therapies.
The evidence is insufficient to support the effect of aminophyllines, magnesium sulfate, mucolytics, inhaled corticosteroids, inhaled antibiotics, 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, and statins on final health outcomes.
BACKGROUND: Triple therapy combinations of a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), a long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA), and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) for COPD were studied in randomized trials and observational studies, with variable results.
eCollection 2019.A Cross-Sectional Study Assessing Appropriateness Of Inhaled Corticosteroid Treatment In Primary And Secondary Care Patients With COPD In Sweden.
PURPOSE: Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are often more widely prescribed in the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) than what is recommended in the guidelines.
If patients exacerbate despite adhering to triple therapy, an individualized approach should be considered if the inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) confers benefit or causes side effects.
RATIONALE: Patients with COPD have an increased risk for community-acquired pneumonia, which is further increased by inhaled corticosteroids.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) is commonly used in the management of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) for symptom relief and exacerbation prevention; however, there is a growing concern that ICS increases risk of osteoporosis and fractures in patients with COPD.RECENT FINDINGS: Osteoporosis is a major comorbidity of COPD.
Long-acting muscarinic antagonists and inhaled corticosteroids, which are commonly used in COPD, have 1-year treatment NNTs between 15 and 20 for exacerbation prevention in unselected patients with COPD.
For example, NNT for inhaled corticosteroids is 9 in patients with a blood eosinophil count ≥ 300 cells/μL and 8 for long-acting muscarinic antagonists in patients with a body mass index ≤ 20 kg/m2 .
To examine clinical outcomes of theophylline use in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) receiving inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and long-acting beta-2 agonists (LABA).
Objectives: Long-term use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) was reported as a risk factor for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) complicated with nontuberculous mycobacterial lung disease (NTM-LD).
Two subsets of studies, one using a true placebo group and the other allowing inhaled corticosteroids in the "placebo" group, also yielded consistent results.
This osteoporosis risk may be enhanced by treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), which are recommended for COPD management when combined with long-acting bronchodilators, but may also be associated with reduced bone mineral density (BMD).
METHODS: Patients prescribed an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) (ELLIPTA, Turbuhaler, or DISKUS), long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)/LABA (ELLIPTA or Breezhaler), or LAMA-only DPI (ELLIPTA, HandiHaler, or Breezhaler) were enrolled.
Epub 2018 Apr 13.[Community-acquired pneumonia in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease treated with inhaled corticosteroids or other bronchodilators.
OBJECTIVES: To analyse the risk of pneumonia and/or exacerbations in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who receive treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (CI), in comparison with those who are not treated with inhaled corticosteroids (NCI).
BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β2 agonist (LABA) fixed-dose combinations (FDCs) and LABA/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) FDCs are extensively used to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Combinations of long-acting bronchodilator agents (LAMA/LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids combined with LABA (ICS/LABA) are also used as initial or follow-up therapy in patients with more severe symptoms or at risk of COPD exacerbations.
doi: 10.3390/ijms20082024.FKBP5 rs4713916: A Potential Genetic Predictor of Interindividual Different Response to Inhaled Corticosteroids in Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease in a Real-Life Setting.
Abbreviations: 5-LOi: 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor; ACOS: asthma - COPD overlap syndrome; B2AR: Beta2 adrenergic receptors; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; cGMP: cyclic guanosine monophosphate; CI: confidence interval; COPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; CRS : chronic rhinosinusitis; cys-LT: cysteinyl leukotrienes; DPI: dry powder inhaler; EMA: European Medicines Agency; FDA: US Food and Drug Administration; FDC: fixed-dose combination; FeNO: exhaled nitric oxide; FEV1: forced expiratory volume in one second; FVC: forced vital capacity; GM-CSF: granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor; ICS : inhaled corticosteroids; IL: interleukin; ILC2: Type 2 innate lymphoid cells; IP3: Inositol triphosphate; IRR: incidence rate ratio; KOLD: Korean Obstructive Lung Disease; LABA: long-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; LAMA: long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; LRA: leukotriene receptor antagonist; LT: leukotrienes; MDI: metered-dose inhalers; MN: M-subtype muscarinic receptors; MRA: muscarinic receptor antagonist; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NEB: nebulization; OR: odds ratio; PDE: phosphodiesterase; PEFR: peak expiratory flow rate; PGD2: prostaglandin D2; PRN: as needed; RR: risk ratio; SABA: short-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; SAMA: short-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; SDMI: spring-driven mist inhaler; Th1: T helper cell 1 lymphocyte; Th2: T helper cell 2 lymphocytes; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor alpha; US : United States.
Dyspnea should initially be managed with the combination of long-acting muscarinic antagonists and long-acting β-agonist inhalers, adding inhaled corticosteroids if symptoms persist.
PURPOSE: A subset of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) experience a decrease in exacerbation frequency, leading to a diminished need for treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
Epub 2020 Apr 25.Efficacy of Budesonide/Glycopyrronium/Formoterol Fumarate Metered Dose Inhaler (BGF MDI) Versus Other Inhaled Corticosteroid/Long-Acting Muscarinic Antagonist/Long-Acting β(2)-Agonist (ICS/LAMA/LABA) Triple Combinations in COPD: A Systematic Literature Review and Network Meta-analysis.
garytferguson@msn.com.(2)AstraZeneca, Morristown, NJ, USA.(3)Parexel International, Punjab, India.(4)AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden.(5)AstraZeneca, Cambridge, UK.INTRODUCTION: Triple inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting muscarinic antagonist/long-acting β2-agonist (ICS/LAMA/LABA) combination therapy is recommended for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who experience further exacerbations/symptoms on dual LAMA/LABA or ICS/LABA therapy.
Epub 2019 Dec 28.Comparative Safety and Effectiveness of Inhaled Corticosteroid and Long-Acting β(2)-Agonist Combinations in Patients With COPD.Chang TY(1), Chien JY(2), Wu CH(3), Dong YH(4), Lin FJ(5).Author information:(1)Graduate Institute of Clinical Pharmacy, College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.(2)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.(3)School of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Research Center for Pharmacoeconomics, College of Pharmacy, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.(4)School of Pharmaceutical Science, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan; Institute of Public Health, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.(5)Graduate Institute of Clinical Pharmacy, College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Pharmacy, College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Pharmacy, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
BACKGROUND: The differential risk of pneumonia among inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use in patients with COPD requires more investigation, especially regarding beclomethasone-containing inhalers.
The outcome was the first incident prescription of a triple inhaled therapy, namely the combination of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), long-acting beta agonists (LABA), and long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA).
We documented the percentage of patients receiving major inhaled COPD-related medications, including short-acting beta-2 adrenoreceptor agonists (SABA), long-acting beta-2 adrenoreceptor agonists (LABA), inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), short-acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (SAMA), and long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMA).
This study aimed to assess the persistence and effectiveness of switching from DPI to pMDI for inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2 -agonist combination therapy (ICS/LABA).METHODS: This was a historical cohort study using Ajou University Hospital (Korea) patient records.
Diagnosis of COPD (OR 0.51, 95% CI 0.37-0.69) and use of inhaled corticosteroids (OR 0.78, 95% CI 0.59-1.02) or inhaled anticholinergics (OR 0.41, 95% CI 0.25-0.67) were also inversely associated with PD.
Patients in both groups were just as likely to receive inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs), but patients with incompatible spirometry were less likely to receive long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) (P<0.001) or LABA/ICS (P = 0.002) combinations.
Rogliani P(1), Matera MG(2), Facciolo F(3), Page C(4), Cazzola M(1), Calzetta L(1).Author information:(1)Unit of Respiratory Medicine, Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Rome, Italy.(2)Unit of Pharmacology, Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Naples, Italy.(3)Thoracic Surgery Unit, Regina Elena National Cancer Institute, Rome, Italy.(4)Sackler Institute of Pulmonary Pharmacology, Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, King's College London, London, UK.BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Combining inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), long-acting β2 -adrenoceptor agonists (LABAs) and long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) is recommended to treat severe forms of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
The following key points emerged from this analysis: 1) evidence is lacking on the comparison of short-acting vs. long-acting bronchodilators in patients with mild COPD; patients with moderate-to-severe COPD obtain greater benefit from long-acting bronchodilators; 2) the benefits of monotherapy with long-acting antimuscarinic agents (LAMA) and combined therapy with long-acting β2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) are similar, although the latter is associated with a greater risk of pneumonia; 3) LABA/LAMA offer greater benefits in terms of lung function and risk of exacerbation than LABA/ICS (the latter involve an increased risk of pneumonia), 4) LAMA/LABA/ICS have greater therapeutic benefits than LABA/LAMA on the risk of moderate-severe exacerbations.
Because of the potential risk described in patients with asthma with the use of long-acting 2 agonist monotherapy, initial therapy for patients with ACO is recommended to include a long-acting bronchodilator in conjunction with inhaled corticosteroids.
eCollection 2019.A Framework For Step Down Or Therapeutic Re-Organization For Withdrawal Of Inhaled Corticosteroids In Selected Patients With COPD: A Proposal For COPD Management.
The most recent Global Initiative for Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) guidelines recommend triple therapy (long-acting beta2 agonists [LABA] + long-acting muscarinic antagonists [LAMA] + inhaled corticosteroids [ICS]) only for patients with exacerbations, elevated eosinophils, and without control using a LABA/LAMA or ICS/LABA combination.
Pharmacologic management includes standard asthma therapies such as inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), inhaled corticosteroid-long acting β-agonist combinations (ICS-LABA), leukotriene antagonists, long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), and short acting bronchodilators (SABA).
Adding inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) to LABA and LAMA (triple therapy) for a prevention of exacerbations results in a further reduction of exacerbations, especially in those patients with higher blood eosinophil counts.
Electronic address: k.f.rabe@lungenclinic.de.(2)Joan and Sanford I. Weill Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.(3)Pulmonary Research Institute of Southeast Michigan, Farmington Hills, MI, USA.(4)National Clinical Research Centre for Respiratory Diseases, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Beijing, China.(5)Medicines Evaluation Unit, University of Manchester, Manchester University NHS Foundation Hospitals Trust, Manchester, UK.(6)Respiratory Division, National Heart and Lung Institute, London, UK.(7)AstraZeneca, Durham, NC, USA.(8)AstraZeneca, Morristown, NJ, USA.(9)AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, MD, USA.BACKGROUND: Single inhaler triple therapies providing an inhaled corticosteroid, a long-acting muscarinic antagonist, and a long-acting β2-agonist (ICS/LAMA/LABAs) are an emerging treatment option for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
2020 Jan 21;15:155-156.BACKGROUND: This study aims to compare the effects of single inhaler triple therapy comprised of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs), and long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMAs) with dual therapies comprised of either LABA/LAMA, ICS/LABA or separate ICS/LABA plus LAMA triple therapy.
Individuals were excluded if they were prescribed an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or ICS/LABA two months prior to the index date or were diagnosed with cystic fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, or asthma.
METHODS: This post-hoc, pooled analysis included studies of COPD patients treated with inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β2 agonist (LABA) combinations and comparator arms of ICS, LABA, and/or placebo.
Background: Blood eosinophils may predict response to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) where ICS is recommended in patients at high risk of exacerbations.
Long-acting bronchodilators, inhaled corticosteroids, and roflumilast decrease the risk of exacerbations, although inhaled corticosteroids should be used judiciously in this population because of the risk of pneumonia and oropharyngeal side effects.
Moretz C(1), Sharpsten L(2), Bengtson LG(2), Koep E(2), Le L(2), Tong J(2), Stanford RH(1), Hahn B(1), Ray R(3).Author information:(1)US Value Evidence and Outcomes, GSK, Durham, NC, USA.(2)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Optum, Eden Prairie, MN, USA.(3)US Medical Affairs, GSK, Durham, NC, USA.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Retrospective claims data in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) initiating maintenance therapy with inhaled fixed-dose combinations of long-acting muscarinic antagonist/long-acting β2-agonist (LAMA/LABA) versus inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/LABA have not been reported.
We calculated adjusted hazard ratios (aHRs) and their 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for HDS after adjustments for sex, age, comorbidities, long-acting β2-agonist or long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LABAs/LAMAs) use, short-acting β2-agonist or short-acting muscarinic antagonist (SABAs/SAMAs) use, oral steroid (OSs) or inhaled corticosteroid steroid (ICSs) use, and anti-arrhythmia drugs use.
Use of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β2 agonist (LABA) combinations, long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), β blockers, aldosterone antagonists, and statins reduced mortality risk compared with non-use.
PURPOSE: Guidelines recommend the use of triple therapy with an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), a long-acting β2 agonist (LABA) and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) to reduce the risk of future exacerbations in symptomatic COPD patients with a history of exacerbations.
METHODS: Information on inhaled medication use collected via questionnaire annually for 4 years was compiled into therapeutic classes (long-acting antimuscarinic agent, long-acting β-agonist, inhaled corticosteroids [ICS], and combinations thereof).
Before hospitalization, women were less likely to have pulmonary function testing (76% vs. 78%; P = 0.01) or be treated with antimuscarinic (43% vs. 48%) or combined long-acting bronchodilator/inhaled corticosteroid (61% vs. 64%) inhalers.
Comorbidities (cardiovascular or metabolic diseases) had no effect on investigated parameters, while inhaled corticosteroids/long-acting β2-agonists (ICS/LABA) therapy increased MPV and PDW values in COPD patients.
COPD therapies at baseline were similar in both cohorts and included systemic corticosteroids (≥65%), short-acting bronchodilators (≥33%), and inhaled corticosteroids + long-acting beta2-agonists (30%).
Given the current concerns over unnecessary inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use in COPD, we also touch briefly on the use of blood eosinophils as a biomarker for identifying those patients with COPD already using LAMA/LABA therapy for whom the addition of ICS might be of benefit.
Here, we propose a simplified therapeutic algorithm for the treatment of COPD patients taking into consideration the current evidence on the use of bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids.
Persistence with all COPD therapy regimens was low, particularly for inhaled corticosteroid (ICS; 25.6%) and ICS/twice-daily long-acting beta-agonist (39.4%) regimens.
Here within, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the effects of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) on the risk of TB in patients with obstructive lung diseases.
Sethi S(1), Donohue JF(2), Ferguson GT(3), Barnes CN(4), Crater GD(5).Author information:(1)University at Buffalo, State University of New York, Buffalo, NY, USA.(2)University of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(3)Pulmonary Research Institute of Southeast Michigan, Farmington Hills, MI, USA.(4)Theravance Biopharma US, Inc., South San Francisco, CA, USA.(5)Theravance Biopharma US, Inc., South San Francisco, CA 94080, USA.BACKGROUND: Combinations of a long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (LAMA), long-acting β-agonist (LABA), and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) are used for patients with persistent chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbations on bronchodilator monotherapy.
2019 Sep;7(9):722-723.BACKGROUND: Previous studies have highlighted a relationship between reduction in rate of exacerbations with therapies containing inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and baseline blood eosinophil count in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
2019 Apr;36(4):962-968.The current recommendations for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are pushing towards triple combination therapy based on the combination of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) associated with two bronchodilator agents.
Whittaker HR(1), Müllerova H(2), Jarvis D(1), Barnes NC(2), Jones PW(2), Compton CH(2), Kiddle SJ(3), Quint JK(1).Author information:(1)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.(2)Respiratory Epidemiology, GlaxoSmithKline R&D, Uxbridge, UK.(3)MRC Biostatistics Unit, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.Background: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)-containing medications slow rate of decline of FEV1.
Epub 2019 May 23.Blood Eosinophil Counts, Withdrawal of Inhaled Corticosteroids and Risk of COPD Exacerbations and Mortality in the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD).Oshagbemi OA(1)(2)(3)(4), Franssen FME(4)(5), van Kraaij S(1), Braeken DCW(3)(4)(5), Wouters EFM(4)(6), Maitland-van der Zee AH(3)(6), Driessen JHM(1)(3)(7), de Vries F(1)(2)(3).Author information:(1)a Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Toxicology, Maastricht University Medical Centre , Maastricht , the Netherlands.(2)b Department of Epidemiology, Care and Public Health Research Institute (CAPHRI), Maastricht University , Maastricht , the Netherlands.(3)c Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences , Utrecht , the Netherlands.(4)d CIRO , Horn , the Netherlands.(5)e Department of Respiratory Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Centre (MUMC+) , Maastricht , the Netherlands.(6)f Department of Respiratory Medicine, Academic Medical Centre (AMC), University of Amsterdam (UvA) Amsterdam , the Netherlands.(7)g NUTRIM School for Nutrition and Translational Research in Metabolism, Maastricht University , Maastricht , the Netherlands.
Although recently introduced in the pharmacological treatment algorithm of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), there is a need for more data supporting the use of blood eosinophil counts as a biomarker to guide inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) therapy.
BACKGROUND: There is controversy regarding the use of blood eosinophil levels as a biomarker of exacerbation risk and responsiveness of patients to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).METHODS: Patients in stable COPD with Gold Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease airflow obstruction grades II to IV were enrolled in an observational multicenter trial.
Systematic reviews (with or without meta-analysis), randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cohort studies and case controlled studies comparing six interventions comprising different combinations of long-acting bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids in unison or on their own.
Clinically, a reasonable therapeutic approach to ACO is the early addition of a long-acting β-agonist (LABA) and/or a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) to an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS).SUMMARY: Both the proposed criteria and the described biomarkers for ACO can help guide clinicians in identifying this condition as well as aid researchers in designing much needed future studies.
Epub 2019 Aug 17.Economic Impact of Reducing Inappropriate Inhaled Corticosteroids Use in Patients With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: ISPOR's Guidance on Budget Impact in Practice.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the budget impact of restricting inappropriate inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) use according to the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD)-guidelines indication for ICS use in the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)-population, taking The Netherlands as a reference case.
2020 Jan 15;16(676-7):81-86.[Pulmonary medicine: asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis].[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]Castro AFTE(1), Chucri S(1), Adler D(1), Janssens JP(1).Author information:(1)Service de pneumologie, Département de médecine, HUG, 1211 Genève 14.Important changes have been proposed by expert groups for the management of mild asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD): for safety reasons, short-acting beta-2 agonists (SABA) are no longer recommended as « reliever therapy » in mild asthma, and should be replaced by symptom-driven inhaled corticosteroids, alone or combined with a beta-2 agonist ; for COPD patients recommendations as to use of inhaled corticosteroids have been redefined.
doi: 10.2174/1389450120666190808141625.Absolute Blood Eosinophil Counts to Guide Inhaled Corticosteroids Therapy Among Patients with COPD: Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.
Oshagbemi OA(1), Odiba JO(2), Daniel A(3), Yunusa I(4).Author information:(1)Department of Epidemiology, Care and Public Health Research Institute (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, Netherlands.(2)Monash Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Melbourne, Australia.(3)Division of Pharmacy, University of Tasmania, Australia.(4)School of Pharmacy, Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Boston, MA, USA.INTRODUCTION: The Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) 2019 recommends the use of absolute blood eosinophil count as a guide for the escalation and de-escalation of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in the pharmacological management of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
We used generic inverse variance method with fixed-effects estimates to compare the risk of moderate or severe exacerbations among COPD patients with elevated blood eosinophil counts exposed to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) versus non-ICS treatments groups expressed as risk ratios.
Three subjects (20%) were current tobacco users and 2 subjects (13%) used inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
Oral bronchodilators (46.5%) and methylxanthine (35.2%) were used more frequently than inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs)/long-acting β2 agonist (LABA) combination agents (11.6%) or inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) (7.5%).CONCLUSIONS: TDL imposes a high medical economic burden in Korea.
The use of short-acting bronchodilators decreased from 81.5% to 67.9%, and that of inhaled corticosteroids from 60.6% to 26.0%.
There is a growing evidence base for precision prescription of inhaled corticosteroids in COPD, based on clinical phenotypes and blood biomarkers, but not yet based on pharmacogenomics.
Ex-smokers treated with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) had lower FENO50 14 (13, 15) ppb than non-treated ex-smokers 17 (15, 19) ppb, p = 0.024.
The trough FEV1 profile (least squares mean change from baseline) for revefenacin 175 μg ranged from 52.3-124.3 mL and the trough FEV1 profile for tiotropium ranged from 79.7-112.8 mL. In subgroup comparisons, the effect of revefenacin on trough FEV1 was comparable in patients taking concomitant long-acting β-agonists, with or without inhaled corticosteroids, with patients who were not taking these medications.
This retrospective study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of tiotropium RespimatⓇ (Tio-Res) in symptomatic, never-smoking, elderly asthmatics with irreversible airflow limitation despite the use of high-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) plus long-acting β2-adrenoceptor agonists (LABA).METHODS: The Asthma Control Test™ (ACT), pulmonary function tests, morning and evening peak flow (mPEF, ePEF, respectively, evaluated with an ASSESS® peak flow meter), and respiratory impedance (assessed with MostGraph®) were measured before and after a minimum of one year of Tio-Res 5 µg/day administration.
OBJECTIVE: Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are generally used to treat patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who suffer from repeated exacerbations.
Prescriptions of fixed-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) with long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs) and ICS/LABA/long-acting muscarinic antagonist triple therapy during the baseline period were higher among patients prescribed mepolizumab vs omalizumab (80.4% vs 56.8% and 27.1% vs 14.4%, respectively, both P<0.001).CONCLUSION: In the 12 months prior to initiation of asthma-specific biologics, patients prescribed mepolizumab had a different prevalence of certain comorbidities, higher disease burden, higher HCRU, and higher healthcare costs compared with patients prescribed omalizumab.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize clinical and economic asthma outcomes surrounding the change from a dry powder inhaler (DPI) to a pressurized metered-dose inhaler (pMDI) for fixed-dose combination inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β agonist (FDC ICS/LABA) treatment.
More importantly, ACO patients show better response to inhaled corticosteroid treatment than other COPD phenotypes.
This analysis included patient subgroups at high risk for COPD exacerbations and compared patients who received revefenacin 175 μg and placebo: severe and very severe airflow limitation (percent predicted FEV1 30%-< 50% and < 30%), 2011 Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) D, reversibility (≥ 12% and ≥ 200 mL increase in FEV1) to short-acting bronchodilators, concurrent use of long-acting β agonists and/or inhaled corticosteroids, older age (> 65 and > 75 years), and comorbidity risk factors.
Bronchodilator's therapy was estimated as well as combined inhaled corticosteroid/ long acting β2-agonist medications and vaccination against pneumococcal infection.
CONCLUSION: Positive effects of long-acting bronchodilator treatment on COPD exacerbation decreasing and more expressed effect of inhaled corticosteroid/ long acting β2-agonists were confirmed.
Triple inhaled therapy for maintenance of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) consists of an inhaled corticosteroid, long-acting muscarinic antagonist, and long-acting beta2-agonist.
doi: 10.1186/s12931-019-1193-9.Efficacy of umeclidinium/vilanterol versus umeclidinium and salmeterol monotherapies in symptomatic patients with COPD not receiving inhaled corticosteroids: the EMAX randomised trial.
BACKGROUND: Prospective evidence is lacking regarding incremental benefits of long-acting dual- versus mono-bronchodilation in improving symptoms and preventing short-term disease worsening/treatment failure in low exacerbation risk patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) not receiving inhaled corticosteroids.
METHODS: The 24-week, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group Early MAXimisation of bronchodilation for improving COPD stability (EMAX) trial randomised patients at low exacerbation risk not receiving inhaled corticosteroids, to umeclidinium/vilanterol 62.5/25 μg once-daily, umeclidinium 62.5 μg once-daily or salmeterol 50 μg twice-daily.
CONCLUSIONS: Umeclidinium/vilanterol consistently provides early and sustained improvements in lung function and symptoms and reduces the risk of deterioration/treatment failure versus umeclidinium or salmeterol in symptomatic patients with low exacerbation risk not receiving inhaled corticosteroids.
In one trial, 17% of patients had previously been using inhaled corticosteroids.
The most suitable treatment approach between a long-acting β2-agonists/long-acting antimuscarinic-agonist (LABA/LAMA) alone or with the addition of inhaled corticosteroids should be determined based on the underlying mechanism of inflammation.
Principal coordinate analysis using Bray-Curtis distance with PERMANOVA analyses demonstrated clustering by anatomic site, phenotype, inhaled corticosteroid use, current tobacco use, COPD severity, and last professional dental cleaning.
Results: After weighing the quality of evidence and balancing the desirable and undesirable effects, the guideline panel made the following recommendations: 1) a strong recommendation for the use of long-acting β2-agonist (LABA)/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) combination therapy over LABA or LAMA monotherapy in patients with COPD and dyspnea or exercise intolerance; 2) a conditional recommendation for the use of triple therapy with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)/LABA/LAMA over dual therapy with LABA/LAMA in patients with COPD and dyspnea or exercise intolerance who have experienced one or more exacerbations in the past year; 3) a conditional recommendation for ICS withdrawal for patients with COPD receiving triple therapy (ICS/LABA/LAMA) if the patient has had no exacerbations in the past year; 4) no recommendation for or against ICS as an additive therapy to long-acting bronchodilators in patients with COPD and blood eosinophilia, except for those patients with a history of one or more exacerbations in the past year requiring antibiotics or oral steroids or hospitalization, for whom ICS is conditionally recommended as an additive therapy; 5) a conditional recommendation against the use of maintenance oral corticosteroids in patients with COPD and a history of severe and frequent exacerbations; and 6) a conditional recommendation for opioid-based therapy in patients with COPD who experience advanced refractory dyspnea despite otherwise optimal therapy.
eCollection 2019.Withdrawal of inhaled corticosteroids in COPD patients: rationale and algorithms.
Observational studies indicate that overutilization of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) is common in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Pharmacological treatment algorithms from the GOLD 2007 report prefer the use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and short-acting bronchodilators (60.2% and 50%, respectively).
The introduction of several new (combination) inhaler therapies, increasing uncertainty about the role of inhaled corticosteroids and a rapid proliferation of the literature on management of stable COPD in general, call for novel ways of evidence synthesis in this area.
ekerwin@criresearch.com.(2)Pulmonary Research Institute of Southeast Michigan, Farmington Hills, MI, USA.(3)Formerly of AstraZeneca, Morristown, NJ, USA.(4)AstraZeneca, Durham, NC, USA.BACKGROUND: Long-term use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) has been associated with increased risk of bone and ocular comorbidities.
Overall, 41.8% and 52.4% of the patients in the low risk groups according to GOLD 2011 and 2017 were exposed to inhaled corticosteroids.
Using the Salford Lung Studies (SLS) in asthma and COPD as an illustrative example, we discuss various features of the inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β2-agonist combination, fluticasone furoate/vilanterol (FF/VI), as potential drivers of effectiveness that may have contributed to the improved patient outcomes observed with initiation of FF/VI versus continuation of usual care in the UK primary care setting.
The proportion of adverse effects was similar between study groups, the exception being the increase in pneumonia for some inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) containing groups.
2020 Apr 22;15:869.BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are a prevailing treatment option for COPD patients but recent guidelines have relegated their use predominantly to patients with frequent exacerbations.
Patients were grouped into three treatment regimens: long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), LABA and long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and triple therapy (LABA, LAMA and ICS).
Studies have shown that an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) combination is also efficacious in reducing symptoms and exacerbations.
Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) strategy is poorly implemented in real-life practice, as many patients are still prescribed inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)-containing regimens and slow-release theophylline.
Some guidelines for ACO recommend triple therapy with inhaled corticosteroids, long-acting β2 agonists, and long-acting muscarinic antagonists.
The main responses were: (1) 16.2% diagnose following clinical criteria; (2) 78.4% performed diagnostic tests other than spirometry; (3) 73.6% always determined alpha-1 antitrypsin levels (81.8% in the second questionnaire, p < 0.05); (4) 73% determined the patient's phenotype; (5) 42% always asked about passive exposure to cigarette smoke (55% after the meetings, p < 0.05); (6) 58.1% always asked about exposure to other pollutants or biomass; (7) 29.1% always assessed inhalational technique; (8) dual bronchodilators were the most common treatment (49.3%) used for patients with frequent exacerbator phenotype, glycopyrronium + indacaterol being the preferred option (44.1%); (9) 41.2% discontinued inhaled corticosteroids treatment (54.7% in the second questionnaire, p < 0.05); (10) for exacerbation admissions, 52% replaced maintenance bronchodilators with short-acting agents and introduced early background treatment (58.8% in the second round, p < 0.05).
BACKGROUND: The comparative efficacy of inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting muscarinic antagonist/long-acting β2-agonist (ICS/LAMA/LABA) triple therapy administered via single or multiple inhalers in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has not been evaluated comprehensively.
doi: 10.21037/jtd.2020.02.51.Treatment with inhaled corticosteroids in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
In chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) in combination with long acting beta-2-agonists (LABA) or LABA/long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) is used in order to reduce exacerbations.
RESULTS: After adjustment for multiple confounding factors, including age, sex, comorbidities, and medications-statins, inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), and oral steroids (OSs)-the ACOS cohort with statin use had significantly lower risks of anxiety and depression (anxiety: adjusted hazard ratio [aHR] = 0.34, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.28-0.42; depression: aHR = 0.36, 95% CI = 0.25-0.53).
In accordance with GOLD 2020 guidelines, they may have a place as add-on therapy for a subgroup of people with persistent symptoms or exacerbations despite optimal COPD management (e.g. people whose condition is not controlled by fixed-dose long-acting beta₂-agonist (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) combinations).
Long-acting muscarinic antagonists and β2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids inhibit the exacerbation of COPD and bronchial asthma caused by infection with viruses, including HCoV-229E. However, the effects of these drugs on HCoV-229E replication and infection-induced inflammation in the human airway are unknown.
Patients aged 40+ affected by COPD and prescribed with inhaled corticosteroids, long-acting beta agonists and long-acting muscarinic antagonists (N = 3177) were enrolled.
https://bit.ly/2XVwIsaThe current coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, raises important questions as to whether pre-morbid use or continued administration of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) affects the outcomes of acute respiratory infections due to coronavirus.
In the last decade many new and generic inhalative bronchodilators were launched at the German market, both monotherapies and fixed dose double bronchodilator (LABA/LAMA, beta adrenergic and antimuscarinic) or LABA and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and triple (LABA/LAMA/ICS) combinations.
COPD cohort without inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) use served as a reference.
CONCLUSIONS: Results demonstrated that BGF MDI showed benefits on lung function (vs inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β2-agonist), as well as symptoms and exacerbations relative to dual therapies.
doi: 10.1177/1753466619891520.Duration of treatment with inhaled corticosteroids in nonasthmatic eosinophilic bronchitis: a randomized open label trial.
BACKGROUND: Nonasthmatic eosinophilic bronchitis (NAEB) responds well to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), while recurrence is common after discontinuing treatment.
The 2-month treatment group showed a lower tendency, with a relapse rate of 20.0% (p = 0.0644).CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that inhaled corticosteroids should be administrated for at least 2 months to reduce the relapse of NAEB.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study was registered on ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02002715).
There was no significant difference in the incidence rates adjusted for medication possession ratios of long-acting muscarinic antagonists, long-acting β-agonists, and inhaled corticosteroids during the follow-up period (incidence rate ratio, 1.47; 95% CI, 0.86 to 2.52).
doi: 10.7326/M20-1058.Should You Recommend Inhaled Corticosteroids for This Patient With Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease?:
The mainstay of treatment for COPD is inhaled bronchodilators, whereas the role of inhaled corticosteroids is less clear.
They consider the indications for inhaled corticosteroids in COPD, when inhaled corticosteroids should be withdrawn, and what other treatments are available.
Compared with placebo or usual care in inpatients, other pharmacologic interventions (aminophyllines, magnesium sulfate, anti-inflammatory agents, inhaled corticosteroids, and short-acting bronchodilators) had insufficient evidence, showing either no or inconclusive effects (with the exception of the mucolytic erdosteine) or improvement only in lung function.
Electronic address: paul.dorinsky1@astrazeneca.com.(2)Pharmaron, Baltimore, MD, USA.(3)AstraZeneca, Durham, NC, USA.(4)AstraZeneca, Morristown, NJ, USA.(5)AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, MD, USA.PURPOSE: The triple combination therapy budesonide/glycopyrrolate/formoterol fumarate in a metered dose inhaler (BGF MDI), formulated by using innovative co-suspension delivery technology, is a new inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting muscarinic antagonist/long-acting β2-agonist fixed-dose combination for the maintenance treatment of COPD.
Two studies compared tiotropium Respimat 5 μg once daily with placebo, both added to high-dose inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) plus long-acting β2-agonist (ie, severe asthma).
eCollection 2019.Characterizing Real-World Use Of Tiotropium In Asthma In The USA.Averell CM(1), Laliberté F(2), Duh MS(3), Wu JW(2), Germain G(2), Faison S(4).Author information:(1)US Value Evidence and Outcomes, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.(2)Groupe d'analyse, Ltée, Montreal, QC, Canada.(3)Analysis Group, Inc, Boston, MA, USA.(4)US Medical Affairs, GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.BACKGROUND: Tiotropium bromide (TIO) is a long-acting muscarinic antagonist recommended as an add-on therapy option for patients with uncontrolled asthma on inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and long-acting β2-agonists (LABA).
doi: 10.12659/AJCR.915402.10-Year Follow-Up of Frequently Relapsed Chronic Eosinophilic Pneumonia Starting at 15 Years Old; Attempts to Treat with Inhaled Corticosteroid (A Case Report).Murayama N(1), Doi S(2), Kameda M(3).Author information:(1)Department of Pediatrics, Murayama Pediatrics, Osaka City, Osaka, Japan.(2)Department of Education, Shitennouji University, Osaka City, Osaka, Japan.(3)Department of Pediatrics, Osaka Habikino Medical Center, Osaka City, Osaka, Japan.
The associations between ADRB2 variants and COPD exacerbations were assessed using Cox proportional hazards models, adjusting for age, sex, use of inhaled corticosteroids, daily dose of β2-agonists, and smoking.
Epub 2019 Nov 27.C-reactive protein as a biomarker of response to inhaled corticosteroids among patients with COPD.Oshagbemi OA(1), Franssen FME(2), Wouters EFM(3), Maitland-van der Zee AH(4), Driessen JHM(5), de Boer A(6), de Vries F(7).Author information:(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Toxicology, Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, the Netherlands; Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht (CARIM), Maastricht University, the Netherlands; Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht, the Netherlands; CIRO, Horn, the Netherlands; Department of Respiratory Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Centre (MUMC+), Maastricht, the Netherlands; Department of Epidemiology, Care and Public Health Research Institute (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, the Netherlands.(2)CIRO, Horn, the Netherlands; Department of Respiratory Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Centre (MUMC+), Maastricht, the Netherlands.(3)CIRO, Horn, the Netherlands; Department of Respiratory Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Centre (MUMC+), Maastricht, the Netherlands; Department of Epidemiology, Care and Public Health Research Institute (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, the Netherlands.(4)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht, the Netherlands; Department of Respiratory Medicine, Academic University Medical Centre, University of Amsterdam (UvA) Amsterdam, the Netherlands.(5)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Toxicology, Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, the Netherlands; Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht (CARIM), Maastricht University, the Netherlands; Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht, the Netherlands.(6)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht, the Netherlands.(7)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Toxicology, Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, the Netherlands; Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht (CARIM), Maastricht University, the Netherlands; Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
AIMS: C-reactive protein (CRP) is an important biomarker in systemic inflammation in COPD; reports have suggested inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) attenuate CRP levels.
We evaluated the risk of moderate-to-severe exacerbations, severe exacerbations and all-cause mortality among patients with COPD currently exposed to Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) stratified by CRP levels compared to never ICS users with low CRP levels.
Availability of short-acting beta agonists (SABA), inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and short acting anti-muscarinic agents (SAMA) ranged between 19.9-100%, 0-45.5% and 0-14.3% respectively.
Epub 2019 Sep 13.Comparing a fixed combination of budesonide/formoterol with other inhaled corticosteroid plus long-acting beta-agonist combinations in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a review.
Introduction: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) plus long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) combinations are commonly used in the treatment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
BACKGROUND: According to several phase III studies, tiotropium [a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)] is a well-tolerated add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) for asthmatics with or without the addition of long-acting beta2-agonists (LABAs).
Airway inflammation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is partially insensitive/resistant to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
We examined the performance and utility of CID in assessing the effect of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in COPD.METHODS: This post-hoc analysis of four budesonide/formoterol (BUD/FORM) studies comprised 3576 symptomatic moderate-to-very-severe COPD patients with a history of exacerbation.
Placebo-adjusted trough forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) total score and EXAcerbations of COPD Tool-Respiratory Symptoms (EXACT-RS) total score data were reported; safety was evaluated by reviewing the incidence of adverse events (AEs) and serious AEs (SAEs).RESULTS: Baseline rescue medication use was a proxy for disease severity, evidenced by decreased lung function, increased health status scores, symptom scores and use of background long-acting β2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids across quarters and treatment groups.
BACKGROUND: Long-acting beta2-agonists (LABAs), with or without inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), delivered by handheld inhalers or nebulizers are recommended as maintenance therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Treatment with combination of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and LL-37 led to a significant increase of HDAC2 expression and activity (expression: 15.7 ± 0.4 μmol/μg vs. 14.1 ± 0.9 μmol/μg, P < 0.01; activity: 1.3 ± 0.1 unit vs. 1.0 ± 0.1 unit, P < 0.01), along with decrease of p-AKT compared to budesonide monotherapy (0.1 ± 0.0 fold of control vs. 0.3 ± 0.1 fold of control, P < 0.01).CONCLUSIONS: This study suggested that LL-37 could improve the anti-inflammatory activity of budesonide in cigarette smoke and LPS-induced COPD rat model by enhancing the expression and activity of HDAC2.
OBJECTIVES: Understand whether inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) withdrawal affected IMPACT results given direct transition from prior maintenance medication to study medication at randomization.
In addition to clearly responding better to inhaled corticosteroids, it is also possible that this subgroup may benefit from biologic treatments targeting eosinophilic inflammation.
Objective: To determine the safety and effectiveness of current pharmacotherapies consisting of long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA) and/or inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in patients with asthma-COPD overlap.
 Salmeterol is used in combination with inhaled corticosteroids in the treatment of asthma.
Salmeterol administration with concomitant inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) has significantly reduced asthma mortality.
METHODS: This non-interventional, prospective, 12-week study enrolled consecutive asthma or COPD patients who had recently begun treatment with B/F Spiromax or were switched from another inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β2-agonist combination to B/F Spiromax in routine clinical practice.
Vignoli A(1)(2), Santini G(3)(4), Tenori L(1)(5), Macis G(6), Mores N(3)(4), Macagno F(7), Pagano F(8)(9), Higenbottam T(10), Luchinat C(1)(2)(11), Montuschi P(3)(4).Author information:(1)Magnetic Resonance Center (CERM) , University of Florence , Via Luigi Sacconi 6 , Sesto Fiorentino , Italy 50019.(2)Consorzio Interuniversitario Risonanze Magnetiche di Metallo Proteine (CIRMMP) , Piazza San Marco 4 , Florence , Italy 50121.(3)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Largo F. Vito, 1, Rome, Italy 00168(4)Pharmacology Unit, University Hospital Agostino Gemelli Foundation, IRCCS, Largo Agostino Gemelli, 8, Rome, Italy 00168(5)Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine , University of Florence , Largo Brambilla 3 , Florence , Italy 50100.(6)Imaging Diagnostics,University Hospital Agostino Gemelli Foundation, IRCCS, Largo Agostino Gemelli, 8, Rome, Italy 00168(7)Respiratory Medicine Unit,University Hospital Agostino Gemelli Foundation, IRCCS, Largo Agostino Gemelli, 8, Rome, Italy 00168(8)Ageing Unit, University Hospital Agostino Gemelli Foundation, IRCCS, Largo Agostino Gemelli, 8, Rome, Italy 00168(9)Department of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Largo F. Vito, 1, Rome, Italy 00168(10)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Medicine , Royal College of Physicians , London NW1 4LE , United Kingdom.(11)Department of Chemistry "Ugo Schiff" , University of Florence , Via della Lastruccia 3 , Sesto Fiorentino , Italy 50019.The aim of this proof-of-concept, pilot study was the evaluation of the effects of steroid administration and suspension of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)-long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) extrafine fixed dose combination (FDC) on metabolomic fingerprints in subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
After adjustment for multiple confounding factors, including age, sex, comorbidities, and medications [statins, inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), or oral steroid (OS)], the adjusted hazard ratios (aHRs) [95% confidence intervals (CIs)] for hepatic, renal, respiratory, and heart failure were 0.50 (0.40-0.64), 0.49 (0.38-0.64), 0.61 (0.27-2.21), and 0.47 (0.37-0.60), respectively.
The efficacy of some treatments for asthma is altered in current smokers, including reduced responsiveness to short-term inhaled corticosteroids and possibly improved responsiveness to leukotriene receptor antagonists.
These 11 therapies were for patients with heart failure (angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, aldosterone receptor antagonists and digoxin), stable coronary artery disease (intensive statin therapy), asthma exacerbations (early inhaled corticosteroids in the emergency department and anticholinergics), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (long-acting muscarinic antagonists and long-acting beta-2 adrenoceptor agonists) and schizophrenia (second-generation antipsychotics and depot/maintenance antipsychotics).CONCLUSIONS: We identified 11 medications supported by strong evidence and clinical guidelines that could be considered in quality monitoring and improvement strategies to help reduce emergency hospital admission rates.
Abbreviations: 5-LOi: 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor; ACOS: asthma - COPD overlap syndrome; B2AR: Beta2 adrenergic receptors; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; cGMP: cyclic guanosine monophosphate; CI: confidence interval; COPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; CRS : chronic rhinosinusitis; cys-LT: cysteinyl leukotrienes; DPI: dry powder inhaler; EMA: European Medicines Agency; FDA: US Food and Drug Administration; FDC: fixed-dose combination; FeNO: exhaled nitric oxide; FEV1: forced expiratory volume in one second; FVC: forced vital capacity; GM-CSF: granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor; ICS : inhaled corticosteroids; IL: interleukin; ILC2: Type 2 innate lymphoid cells; IP3: Inositol triphosphate; IRR: incidence rate ratio; KOLD: Korean Obstructive Lung Disease; LABA: long-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; LAMA: long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; LRA: leukotriene receptor antagonist; LT: leukotrienes; MDI: metered-dose inhalers; MN: M-subtype muscarinic receptors; MRA: muscarinic receptor antagonist; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NEB: nebulization; OR: odds ratio; PDE: phosphodiesterase; PEFR: peak expiratory flow rate; PGD2: prostaglandin D2; PRN: as needed; RR: risk ratio; SABA: short-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; SAMA: short-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; SDMI: spring-driven mist inhaler; Th1: T helper cell 1 lymphocyte; Th2: T helper cell 2 lymphocytes; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor alpha; US : United States.
When subdividing statin users and statin nonusers into groups according to concomitant treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) the following HRs were found: 0.75 (0.58-0.98) for ICS only; 0.69 (0.36-1.3) for statins only; and 0.39 (0.22-0.67) for the combined treatment with statin and ICS compared with no such treatment.
Treatment with statins was associated with improved survival after chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation, while inhaled corticosteroids appeared to increase the survival benefit associated with statin use.
After adjustment for sex, age, comorbidities, inhaled corticosteroid steroid (ICS) use, and oral steroid (OS) use, we calculated the adjusted hazard ratios (aHRs) and their 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for CAD or stroke in the statin users (long-term [>600 days] and short-term [≤600 days]) compared with the non-users.
We performed a meta-analysis to compare the impact of triple combination therapy with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs) and long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMAs) versus LABA/LAMA combination therapy or single long-acting bronchodilator therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Patients with acute exacerbations may benefit from the addition of inhaled corticosteroids, particularly those with elevated peripheral eosinophil levels.
Appropriate use of long-acting maintenance bronchodilators, inhaled corticosteroids, and pulmonary rehabilitation decreases symptoms, optimizes functional performance, and reduces exacerbation frequency.
Oba Y(1), Keeney E, Ghatehorde N, Dias S.Author information:(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, USA.Update of    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD012620.BACKGROUND: Long-acting bronchodilators such as long-acting β-agonist (LABA), long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) combinations have been used in people with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) to control symptoms such as dyspnoea and cough, and prevent exacerbations.
doi: 10.1164/rccm.201709-1807OC.Intensified Therapy with Inhaled Corticosteroids and Long-Acting β(2)-Agonists at the Onset of Upper Respiratory Tract Infection to Prevent Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Exacerbations.
2018 Oct 15;198(8):1103-1105.RATIONALE: The efficacy of intensified combination therapy with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and long-acting β2-agonists (LABA) at the onset of upper respiratory tract infection (URTI) symptoms in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is unknown.
Vanfleteren L(1)(2)(3), Fabbri LM(1)(4), Papi A(4), Petruzzelli S(5), Celli B(6).Author information:(1)COPD Center, Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden, lowie.vanfleteren@vgregion.se.(2)CIRO, Horn, the Netherlands, lowie.vanfleteren@vgregion.se.(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Hospital, Maastricht, the Netherlands, lowie.vanfleteren@vgregion.se.(4)Section of Cardiorespiratory and Internal Medicine, Department of Medical Sciences, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.(5)Global Clinical Development, Chiesi Farmaceutici SpA, Parma, Italy.(6)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.Recently, two "fixed triple" single-inhaler combinations of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), a long-acting β2-agonist (LABA), and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) have become available for patients with COPD.
Incidence of UTI was compared between older people with physician-diagnosed COPD, who were new users of inhaled long-acting anticholinergics and new users of inhaled corticosteroids-a reference medication used in similar clinical settings that has no known association with UTI.
However, in a priori defined stratified analyses, men newly initiated on LAA were 75% more likely to develop a UTI than men newly started on an inhaled corticosteroid (hazard ratio 1.75; 95% confidence interval 1.05-2.92).
Triple therapy consisted of a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), long acting β agonist (LABA), and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS).
2019 May 1;9(4):e009183corr1.OBJECTIVE: To compare the safety and effectiveness of long-acting β-antagonists (LABA), long-acting antimuscarinic agents (LAMA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) for managing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).SETTING: Systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA).PARTICIPANTS: 208 randomised clinical trials (RCTs) including 134,692 adults with COPD.INTERVENTIONS: LABA, LAMA and/or ICS, alone or in combination, versus each other or placebo.
The triple combination therapy of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), long-acting beta2 agonists (LABAs), and long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) has become an option for maintenance treatment of COPD and as a "step-up" therapy from single or double combination treatments.
Further beneficial effects of SAMAs and LAMAs are seen when added to existing treatments, including LABAs, inhaled corticosteroids and phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors.
PURPOSE: To assess the comparative efficacy of short-acting muscarinic antagonists (SAMAs), long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), LAMA in combination with long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs; LAMA/LABAs) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in combination with LABA (ICS/LABAs) for the maintenance treatment of COPD.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We systematically reviewed 74 randomized controlled trials (74,832 participants) published up to 15 November 2017, which compared any of the interventions (SAMA [ipratropium], LAMA [aclidinium, glycopyrronium, tiotropium, umeclidinium], LAMA/LABA [aclidinium/formoterol, indacaterol/glycopyrronium, tiotropium/olodaterol, umeclidinium/vilanterol] and ICS/LABA [fluticasone/vilanterol, budesonide/formoterol, salmeterol/fluticasone]) with each other or with placebo.
Concomitant inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use was permitted in all of the included studies (where stated); across the included studies, between 28% to 58% of participants were using ICS at baseline.
eCollection 2017.Long-acting bronchodilators with or without inhaled corticosteroids and 30-day readmission in patients hospitalized for COPD.Bishwakarma R(1), Zhang W(1), Kuo YF(2), Sharma G(3).Author information:(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine.(2)Office of Biostatistics; Sealy Center of Aging, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine; Sealy Center of Aging, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.BACKGROUND: The ability of a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and long-acting beta 2 agonists (LABAs; long-acting bronchodilators, LABDs) with or without inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) to reduce early readmission in hospitalized patients with COPD is unknown.
Meta-regression controlling for post-bronchodilator percentage of tFEV1 predicted at baseline as well as meta-regression adjusting for concomitant use of inhaled corticosteroids at baseline was performed to assess the magnitude of effect modification and produced similar results as observed in the base case analysis.
Several LAMAs are now available for use either as monotherapy or in combination with other COPD medications, including long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs) or inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
CIBER de Enfermedades Respiratorias (CIBERES) , Barcelona , Spain.(4)d Airways Disease Section , National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London , London , UK.Triple inhaled therapy for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) consists of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), a long-acting β2-agonist (LABA) and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) taken in combination.
Dispensings of LABAs, LAMAs and inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) were aggregated into episodes of use of therapeutic regimens.
Epub 2016 May 5.Long-acting Muscarinic Antagonist Versus Inhaled Corticosteroid when Added to Long-acting β-agonist for COPD: A Meta-analysis.
Oba Y(1), Chandran AV(1), Devasahayam JV(1).Author information:(1)a Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Environmental Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Missouri , Columbia , Missouri , USA.The purpose of this study was to systematically review the efficacy and safety of long-acting β-agonist/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LABA/LAMA) and LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) combinations in patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
doi: 10.1001/jama.2017.11903.Long-Acting β-Agonists (LABA) Combined With Long-Acting Muscarinic Antagonists or LABA Combined With Inhaled Corticosteroids for Patients With Stable COPD.Horita N(1), Nagashima A(1), Kaneko T(1).Author information:(1)Department of Pulmonology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, Japan.
CLINICAL QUESTION: Are inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) combined with long-acting β-agonists (LABA) associated with differences in the incidence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation and serious adverse events and with differences in quality of life and forced expiratory volume in the first second of expiration (FEV1) vs inhaled LABA plus inhaled corticosteroids therapy for the treatment of stable COPD?BOTTOM LINE: Compared with inhaled LABA combined with corticosteroids, inhaled LAMA combined with LABA may be associated with a lower risk of COPD exacerbation and with greater improvement in FEV1 without differences in the incidence of serious severe adverse events or quality of life.
The role of the anti-inflammatory and bronchodilator triple therapy, including a long acting ß2-agonist (LABA), a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), in the prevention of the exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is still not clearly established, and requires comparison with dual therapy (LABA-CSI or LABA-LAMA).
Patients with asthma and COPD had higher disease burden indicators and inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist use compared with COPD alone.
Hurst JR(1), Dilleen M(2), Morris K(3), Hills S(3), Emir B(4), Jones R(5).Author information:(1)UCL Respiratory, University College London, London, UK.(2)Statistics, Global Product Development, Pfizer, Tadworth, UK.(3)Medical Affairs, Pfizer, Tadworth, UK.(4)Biostatistics, Global Product Development, Pfizer, New York, NY, USA.(5)Clinical Trials & Health Research, Institute of Translational and Stratified Medicine, Plymouth University Peninsula Schools of Medicine and Dentistry, Plymouth, UK.PURPOSE: Inappropriate use of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) for COPD has clinical and economic disadvantages.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study identified patients with COPD who were newly prescribed a LABD (long-acting muscarinic antagonist [LAMA], long-acting beta2-agonist [LABA], a combination of LABA+LAMA or combination of LABA with inhaled corticosteroid [ICS]/LABA) between January 1, 2009 and November 30, 2013 from the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess the current evidence for long-acting β2-agonist (LABA)/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) fixed-dose combinations (FDCs) in the treatment of COPD.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic literature search of randomized controlled trials published in English up to September 2017 of LABA/LAMA FDCs vs LABA or LAMA or LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) FDCs in COPD patients was performed using PubMed, Embase, Scopus, and Google Scholar.
In individuals with persistent symptoms or frequent exacerbations, inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are also used.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effect of adding an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) to combination long-acting beta₂-agonist (LABA)/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) inhalers for the treatment of stable COPD.SEARCH METHODS: We carried out searches using the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register of Trials (searched 20 September 2016), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2015, Issue 12) in the Cochrane Library (searched 15 December 2015) and MEDLINE (searched 15 December 2015).
Based on currently available data on adding inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) to a LABA, ICS might be added to a LABA/LAMA combination in exacerbating patients who have an asthma-COPD overlap syndrome or high blood eosinophil counts, while in exacerbators with chronic bronchitis, consideration should be given to treating with a phosphodiesterase (PDE)-4 inhibitor (roflumilast) or high-dose mucolytic agents.
Studies were included if they compared any of the following treatments versus any other: long-acting beta2-agonists (LABAs; formoterol, indacaterol, salmeterol); long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs; aclidinium, glycopyrronium, tiotropium); inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs; budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone); combination long-acting beta2-agonist (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (LABA/ICS) (formoterol/budesonide, formoterol/mometasone, salmeterol/fluticasone); and placebo.
Petite SE(1).Author information:(1)1 University of Toledo College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Toledo, OH, USA.OBJECTIVE: To compare the available literature regarding the use of long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)/long-acting β2 agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/LABA combination inhaler therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) maintenance therapy management.
DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE literature search from database inception to February 2017 was conducted using the search terms chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, adrenergic beta-agonist, muscarinic antagonist, and inhaled corticosteroid.
Compared to the overall FLAME population, the Asian cohort had more males, a shorter duration of COPD, fewer patients using inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) at screening, fewer current smokers, and more patients with very severe COPD.
Epub 2014 Jun 22.Impact of long-acting bronchodilators and exposure to inhaled corticosteroids on mortality in COPD: a real-life retrospective cohort study.
Manoharan A(1), Short PM, Anderson WJ, Lipworth BJ.Author information:(1)Scottish Centre for Respiratory Research, Division of Cardiovascular and Diabetes Medicine, Medical Research Institute, University of Dundee, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee, DD1 9SY, Scotland, UK.INTRODUCTION: We performed a real-life retrospective analysis to assess the impact of long-acting bronchodilator therapy and associated exposure to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) on all-cause and cardiovascular mortality in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).METHODS: We used record linkage data from patients with a diagnosis of COPD in Tayside, Scotland, between 2001 and 2010.
The move towards increasing duration of bronchodilator action is generally paralleled by improved effects on clinical outcomes, and the advent of more potent agents seems likely to provide an opportunity to reduce overreliance on the use of inhaled corticosteroids in treating COPD.
Epub 2011 Jul 28.The impact of tiotropium on mortality and exacerbations when added to inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β-agonist therapy in COPD.Short PM(1), Williamson PA(1), Elder DHJ(2), Lipworth SIW(3), Schembri S(4), Lipworth BJ(5).Author information:(1)Asthma and Allergy Research Group, University of Dundee, Dundee.(2)Centre for Cardiovascular and Lung Biology, Division of Medical Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee.(3)Bute Medical School, University of St. Andrews, St. Andrews.(4)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Perth Royal Infirmary, Perth, Scotland.(5)Asthma and Allergy Research Group, University of Dundee, Dundee.
It remains unclear whether benefits are seen when tiotropium is used in conjunction with inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) plus long-acting β-agonists (LABAs).METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study using a National Health Service database of patients with COPD in Tayside, Scotland, between 2001 and 2010 that is linked with databases regarding hospital admissions, pharmacy prescriptions, and death registries.
Combination therapy with an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and a long-acting β-agonist (LABA) is considered an important approach for treating patients with asthma and patients with severe COPD who have frequent exacerbations.
RESULTS: 67.6% of the patients received a combination of a long-acting anticholinergic drug (LAMA) and a long-acting beta-mimetic drug (LABA), while 65.8% received inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), 11.7% theophylline, and 12.6% oral corticosteroids (OCS).
suelangham@maverex.com.(2)Maverex Limited, Manchester, UK.(3)University of Michigan, Women's Respiratory Clinic, Ann Arbor, USA.(4)University of Dundee and Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee, UK.BACKGROUND: Guidelines recommend that treatment with a long-acting β2 agonist (LABA), a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), i.e. triple therapy, is reserved for a select group of symptomatic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who continue to exacerbate despite treatment with dual therapy (LABA/LAMA).
LABA/LAMA fixed-dose combinations (FDCs) can also significantly improve lung function, dyspnea, symptoms and health status and reduce exacerbations and rescue medication use versus an inhaled corticosteroid/LABA, with a comparable safety profile and lower incidence of pneumonia.
Moreover, the recent UPLIFT trial provides supportive evidence for the efficacy of tiotropium in COPD patients already receiving treatment with long-acting inhaled beta-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids, suggesting advantages of 'triple' therapy in advanced disease.
There are concerns regarding long-term complications (weight gain, osteoporosis, cataract) and increased risk of community-acquired pneumonia with the use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
SUMMARY: Data from clinical trials and from real-life confirm the safety and efficacy of LAMAs, especially tiotropium, in patients who remain uncontrolled despite the use of inhaled corticosteroid therapy.
When compared with patients who were not treated with an LABD, treated patients tended to be younger and had a modestly lower comorbidity burden but were more likely to have had prior admission for COPD and to be treated with inhaled corticosteroids.
Epub 2017 Nov 15.A review of current and developing fixed-dose LABA/LAMA combinations for treating COPD.Lal C(1), Strange C(1).Author information:(1)a Pulmonary, Critical Care, Allergy and Sleep Medicine , Medical University of South Carolina , Charleston , SC , USA.The current GOLD (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease) recommendations suggest using long acting β2 agonists (LABA) and long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) in combination for group B COPD patients with persistent symptoms, group C COPD patients with further exacerbations on LAMA therapy alone and for group D COPD patients with or without combination with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
The current clinical use of LABA/LAMA combinations in COPD will continue to evolve as new trials with and without inhaled corticosteroids are completed.
The available agents approved for COPD treatment are long-acting or ultra-long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs) and long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) bronchodilators, as well as inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in combination with LABAs.
2017 Jul;5(7):e26.BACKGROUND: Limited data are available for the efficacy of triple therapy with two long-acting bronchodilators and an inhaled corticosteroid in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD012066.pub2.Long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) plus long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) versus LABA plus inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) for stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).Horita N(1), Goto A(2), Shibata Y(1), Ota E(3), Nakashima K(1), Nagai K(1), Kaneko T(1).Author information:(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine, Fukuura 3-9, Kanazawa, Yokohama, Japan, 236-0004.(2)Metabolic Epidemiology Section, Division of Epidemiology, Center for Public Health Sciences, National Cancer Center, Tokyo, Japan, 5-1-1 Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 104-0045.(3)Global Health Nursing, St. Luke's International University, Graduate School of Nursing Sciences, 10-1 Akashi-cho, Chuo-Ku, Tokyo, Japan, 104-0044.Comment in    Evid Based Med.
2017 Oct;22(5):183-184.BACKGROUND: Three classes of inhaler medications are used to manage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD): long-acting beta-agonists (LABA), long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
Inhaled short-acting β2-agonists provide rapid relief of acute symptoms, but maintenance with daily inhaled corticosteroids is the standard of care for persistent asthma.
Combination therapy, including inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β2-agonists, is effective in patients for whom inhaled corticosteroids alone are insufficient.
Management of persistent asthma requires avoidance of aggravating environmental factors, use of short-acting β2-agonists for rapid relief of symptoms, and daily use of inhaled corticosteroids.
Further beneficial effects of SAMAs and LAMAs are seen when added to existing treatments, including LABAs, inhaled corticosteroids and phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors.
Vanfleteren L(1)(2)(3), Fabbri LM(1)(4), Papi A(4), Petruzzelli S(5), Celli B(6).Author information:(1)COPD Center, Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden, lowie.vanfleteren@vgregion.se.(2)CIRO, Horn, the Netherlands, lowie.vanfleteren@vgregion.se.(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Hospital, Maastricht, the Netherlands, lowie.vanfleteren@vgregion.se.(4)Section of Cardiorespiratory and Internal Medicine, Department of Medical Sciences, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.(5)Global Clinical Development, Chiesi Farmaceutici SpA, Parma, Italy.(6)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.Recently, two "fixed triple" single-inhaler combinations of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), a long-acting β2-agonist (LABA), and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) have become available for patients with COPD.
Triple therapy consisted of a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), long acting β agonist (LABA), and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS).
Petite SE(1).Author information:(1)1 University of Toledo College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Toledo, OH, USA.OBJECTIVE: To compare the available literature regarding the use of long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)/long-acting β2 agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/LABA combination inhaler therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) maintenance therapy management.
DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE literature search from database inception to February 2017 was conducted using the search terms chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, adrenergic beta-agonist, muscarinic antagonist, and inhaled corticosteroid.
The objective of this analysis was to compare the efficacy and safety of LABA/LAMA with LAMA or LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in adults with stable moderate-to-very-severe COPD.METHODS: This systematic review and meta-analysis (PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Library and clinical trial/manufacturer databases) included RCTs comparing ≥12 weeks' LABA/LAMA treatment with LAMA and/or LABA/ICS (approved doses only).
doi: 10.1001/jama.2018.2757.Association of Inhaled Corticosteroids and Long-Acting Muscarinic Antagonists With Asthma Control in Patients With Uncontrolled, Persistent Asthma: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.
2018 Jul 17;169(2):JC4.IMPORTANCE: Long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) are a potential adjunct therapy to inhaled corticosteroids in the management of persistent asthma.
OBJECTIVE: To conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effects associated with LAMA vs placebo or vs other controllers as an add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids and the use of a LAMA as add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β-agonists (LABAs; hereafter referred to as triple therapy) vs inhaled corticosteroids and LABA in patients with uncontrolled, persistent asthma.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane databases, and clinical trial registries (earliest date through November 28, 2017).STUDY SELECTION: Two reviewers selected randomized clinical trials or observational studies evaluating a LAMA vs placebo or vs another controller as an add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids or triple therapy vs inhaled corticosteroids and LABA in patients with uncontrolled, persistent asthma reporting on an outcome of interest.
Most trials assessed adding LAMA vs placebo or LAMA vs LABA to inhaled corticosteroids.
Adding LAMA vs placebo to inhaled corticosteroids was associated with a significantly reduced risk of exacerbation requiring systemic corticosteroids (RR, 0.67 [95% CI, 0.48 to 0.92]; RD, -0.02 [95% CI, -0.04 to 0.00]).
Compared with adding LABA, adding LAMA to inhaled corticosteroids was not associated with significant improvements in exacerbation risk (RR, 0.87 [95% CI, 0.53 to 1.42]; RD, 0.00 [95% CI, -0.02 to 0.02]), or any other outcomes of interest.
Triple therapy was not significantly associated with improved exacerbation risk vs inhaled corticosteroids and LABA (RR, 0.84 [95% CI, 0.57 to 1.22]; RD, -0.01 [95% CI, -0.08 to 0.07]).CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this systematic review and meta-analysis, the use of LAMA compared with placebo as add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids was associated with a lower risk of asthma exacerbations; however, the association of LAMA with benefit may not be greater than that with LABA.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011721.pub2.Long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to combination long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) versus LABA/ICS for adults with asthma.
Kew KM(1), Dahri K.Author information:(1)Population Health Research Institute, St George's, University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London, UK, SW17 0RE.BACKGROUND: Maintenance treatment with long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) can relieve asthma symptoms and reduce the frequency of exacerbations, but there are limited treatment options for people who do not gain control on combination LABA/ICS.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of adding a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) to combination long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in adults whose asthma is not well controlled by LABA/ICS.SEARCH METHODS: We identified trials from the Cochrane Airways Review Group Specialised Register (CAGR) up to January 2016.
Epub 2016 May 5.Long-acting Muscarinic Antagonist Versus Inhaled Corticosteroid when Added to Long-acting β-agonist for COPD: A Meta-analysis.
Oba Y(1), Chandran AV(1), Devasahayam JV(1).Author information:(1)a Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Environmental Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Missouri , Columbia , Missouri , USA.The purpose of this study was to systematically review the efficacy and safety of long-acting β-agonist/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LABA/LAMA) and LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) combinations in patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
The role of the anti-inflammatory and bronchodilator triple therapy, including a long acting ß2-agonist (LABA), a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), in the prevention of the exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is still not clearly established, and requires comparison with dual therapy (LABA-CSI or LABA-LAMA).
PURPOSE: To assess the comparative efficacy of short-acting muscarinic antagonists (SAMAs), long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), LAMA in combination with long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs; LAMA/LABAs) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in combination with LABA (ICS/LABAs) for the maintenance treatment of COPD.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We systematically reviewed 74 randomized controlled trials (74,832 participants) published up to 15 November 2017, which compared any of the interventions (SAMA [ipratropium], LAMA [aclidinium, glycopyrronium, tiotropium, umeclidinium], LAMA/LABA [aclidinium/formoterol, indacaterol/glycopyrronium, tiotropium/olodaterol, umeclidinium/vilanterol] and ICS/LABA [fluticasone/vilanterol, budesonide/formoterol, salmeterol/fluticasone]) with each other or with placebo.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011721.pub2.Long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to combination long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) versus LABA/ICS for adults with asthma.
Kew KM(1), Dahri K.Author information:(1)Population Health Research Institute, St George's, University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London, UK, SW17 0RE.BACKGROUND: Maintenance treatment with long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) can relieve asthma symptoms and reduce the frequency of exacerbations, but there are limited treatment options for people who do not gain control on combination LABA/ICS.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of adding a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) to combination long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in adults whose asthma is not well controlled by LABA/ICS.SEARCH METHODS: We identified trials from the Cochrane Airways Review Group Specialised Register (CAGR) up to January 2016.
We performed a meta-analysis to compare the impact of triple combination therapy with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs) and long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMAs) versus LABA/LAMA combination therapy or single long-acting bronchodilator therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Several studies have documented that long-acting bronchodilators can reduce exacerbation rate and/or severity, and others have shown that combinations of long-acting β2-adrenergic agonists (LABAs) and long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) provide greater reductions in exacerbation frequency than either their monocomponents or LABA/inhaled corticosteroid combinations in patients at low and high risk for these events.
In this review, small groups of experts critically evaluated mechanisms potentially responsible for the increased benefit of LABA/LAMA combinations over single long-acting bronchodilators or LABA/inhaled corticosteroids in decreasing exacerbation.
Several LAMAs are now available for use either as monotherapy or in combination with other COPD medications, including long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs) or inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
The tiotropium clinical trial programme is the most advanced, with data available from a number of phase II and III studies of tiotropium as an add-on to inhaled corticosteroid maintenance therapy, with or without a long-acting β2-agonist, in patients across asthma severities.
2019 May 1;9(4):e009183corr1.OBJECTIVE: To compare the safety and effectiveness of long-acting β-antagonists (LABA), long-acting antimuscarinic agents (LAMA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) for managing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).SETTING: Systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA).PARTICIPANTS: 208 randomised clinical trials (RCTs) including 134,692 adults with COPD.INTERVENTIONS: LABA, LAMA and/or ICS, alone or in combination, versus each other or placebo.
Further beneficial effects of SAMAs and LAMAs are seen when added to existing treatments, including LABAs, inhaled corticosteroids and phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors.
Epub 2016 May 5.Long-acting Muscarinic Antagonist Versus Inhaled Corticosteroid when Added to Long-acting β-agonist for COPD: A Meta-analysis.
Oba Y(1), Chandran AV(1), Devasahayam JV(1).Author information:(1)a Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Environmental Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Missouri , Columbia , Missouri , USA.The purpose of this study was to systematically review the efficacy and safety of long-acting β-agonist/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LABA/LAMA) and LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) combinations in patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Patients with acute exacerbations may benefit from the addition of inhaled corticosteroids, particularly those with elevated peripheral eosinophil levels.
Appropriate use of long-acting maintenance bronchodilators, inhaled corticosteroids, and pulmonary rehabilitation decreases symptoms, optimizes functional performance, and reduces exacerbation frequency.
doi: 10.1001/jama.2017.11903.Long-Acting β-Agonists (LABA) Combined With Long-Acting Muscarinic Antagonists or LABA Combined With Inhaled Corticosteroids for Patients With Stable COPD.Horita N(1), Nagashima A(1), Kaneko T(1).Author information:(1)Department of Pulmonology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, Japan.
CLINICAL QUESTION: Are inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) combined with long-acting β-agonists (LABA) associated with differences in the incidence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation and serious adverse events and with differences in quality of life and forced expiratory volume in the first second of expiration (FEV1) vs inhaled LABA plus inhaled corticosteroids therapy for the treatment of stable COPD?BOTTOM LINE: Compared with inhaled LABA combined with corticosteroids, inhaled LAMA combined with LABA may be associated with a lower risk of COPD exacerbation and with greater improvement in FEV1 without differences in the incidence of serious severe adverse events or quality of life.
GINA recommends stepwise pharmacological treatment, advocating inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) plus rapid, long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) delivered in a single inhaler for maintenance and relief at Steps 3 (moderate persistent asthma requiring 1-2 controllers plus as-needed reliever), 4 (severe persistent asthma requiring ≥2 controllers plus as-needed reliever), and 5 (higher level care and/or add-on treatment).
Petite SE(1).Author information:(1)1 University of Toledo College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Toledo, OH, USA.OBJECTIVE: To compare the available literature regarding the use of long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)/Long acting beta 2 agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/LABA combination inhaler therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) maintenance therapy management.
DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE literature search from database inception to February 2017 was conducted using the search terms chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, adrenergic beta-agonist, muscarinic antagonist, and inhaled corticosteroid.
2018 Apr 1;197(7):968-969.RATIONALE: Post hoc analyses suggest that blood eosinophils have potential as a predictive biomarker of inhaled corticosteroid efficacy in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).OBJECTIVES: We prospectively investigated the value of blood eosinophils as a predictor of responsiveness to an inhaled corticosteroid/Long acting beta 2-agonist combination versus a Long acting beta 2-agonist/long-acting muscarinic antagonist combination for exacerbation prevention.
METHODS: We conducted prespecified analyses of data from the FLAME (Effect of Indacaterol Glycopyronium vs Fluticasone Salmeterol on COPD Exacerbations) study, which compared once-daily Long acting beta 2-agonist/long-acting muscarinic antagonist indacaterol/glycopyrronium 110/50 μg with twice-daily long-acting beta2-agonist/inhaled corticosteroid salmeterol/fluticasone combination 50/500 μg in patients with one or more exacerbations in the preceding year.
2012 Jun;17(3):93-5.BACKGROUND: The long-acting bronchodilator tiotropium and single inhaler combination therapy of inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta(2)-agonists are both commonly used for maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the relative effects of inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta(2)-agonist combination therapy in addition to tiotropium compared to tiotropium or combination therapy alone in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included parallel, randomised controlled trials of three months or longer, comparing inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta(2)-agonists combination therapy in addition to inhaled tiotropium against tiotropium alone or combination therapy alone.
MAIN RESULTS: Three trials (1021 patients) were included comparing tiotropium in addition to inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta(2)-agonist combination therapy to tiotropium alone.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: To date there is uncertainty regarding the long-term benefits and risks of treatment with tiotropium in addition to inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta(2)-agonist combination therapy on mortality, hospitalisation, exacerbations of COPD and pneumonia.
doi: 10.1002/phar.1913.Comparative Effectiveness of Long-Acting Beta(2) -Agonist Combined with a Long-Acting Muscarinic Antagonist or Inhaled Corticosteroid in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.
COPD treatment guidelines currently recommend combination LABA/LAMA as alternative therapy to combination LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS).
Epub 2017 Sep 30.Step-Down Therapy for Asthma Well Controlled on Inhaled Corticosteroid and Long-Acting Beta-Agonist: A Randomized Clinical Trial.
2018 Mar - Apr;6(2):644-645.BACKGROUND: Stepping down therapy when asthma is well controlled on combination inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) and long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs) is recommended, but it is not known whether lowering the ICS dose or stopping LABA is superior.
This loss of functional antagonism with long-acting beta 2-agonist therapy is partial and is not prevented by concomitant inhaled corticosteroid therapy.
However, the protective effects of inhaled corticosteroids on their own appear to be additive to those of long-acting beta 2-agonists when both drugs are concomitantly administered in the long term.
As with the bronchoprotective effects of long-acting beta 2-agonists, the development of bronchodilator subsensitivity is only partial and occurs regardless of whether patients are taking concomitant inhaled corticosteroid therapy.
Current international asthma management guidelines suggest that long-acting beta 2-agonists should be used on a regular basis in patients who ware inadequately controlled on inhaled corticosteroid therapy, so the addition of long-acting beta 2-agonist therapy is an alternative to using higher doses of inhaled corticosteroids.
There are, however, concerns that regular long-acting beta 2-agonists might result in masking of inadequately treated inflammation in patients receiving suboptimal inhaled corticosteroid therapy.
In patients receiving an optimised maintenance dose of inhaled corticosteroid, if long-acting beta 2-agonists are to be used on an as required basis, it would seem rational to use formoterol for this purpose, due to its faster onset of action than salmeterol.
The addition of a long-acting beta-agonist to an inhaled corticosteroid has been accepted as effective therapy for almost two decades Despite the widespread use and their clinical benefit, controversy regarding their safety arose after their introduction.
The evidence supports the use of long-acting beta-2 agonists plus inhaled corticosteroids in a single inhaler device to increase adherence and reduce the potential use of long-acting beta-2 agonists monotherapy.
Drug treatment for ACO employs a combination of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) and long-acting bronchodilators; long-acting muscarinic antagonists and/or Long acting beta 2 agonists.
glenn.jacobson@utas.edu.au.(2)School of Animal and Veterinary Sciences, Charles Sturt University, Wagga Wagga, NSW, Australia.(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Bispebjerg University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.(4)Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.(5)Department of Systems Medicine, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Rome, Italy.(6)School of Medicine, University of Tasmania, Private Bag 26, Hobart, TAS, 7001, Australia.(7)Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN, USA.(8)Sackler Institute of Pulmonary Pharmacology, Kings College London, London, UK.Long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs) such as formoterol and salmeterol are used for prolonged bronchodilatation in asthma, usually in combination with inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs).
Epub 2017 Sep 30.Step-Down Therapy for Asthma Well Controlled on Inhaled Corticosteroid and Long-Acting Beta-Agonist: A Randomized Clinical Trial.
2018 Mar - Apr;6(2):644-645.BACKGROUND: Stepping down therapy when asthma is well controlled on combination inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) and long acting beta agonists (LABAs) is recommended, but it is not known whether lowering the ICS dose or stopping LABA is superior.
2008 Apr;13(2):56-7.BACKGROUND: The co-administration of inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta-agonists in a combined inhaler is intended to facilitate adherence to medication regimens, and to improve efficacy in COPD.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy of combined inhaled corticosteroids and long acting beta agonists preparations with mono component long-acting beta-agonists in adults with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Studies could compare a combined inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta-agonist preparation with component long-acting beta-agonist preparation.
Additional studies on BDF are required and more information would be useful of the relative benefits and adverse event rates with different doses of inhaled corticosteroids.
Petite SE(1).Author information:(1)1 University of Toledo College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Toledo, OH, USA.OBJECTIVE: To compare the available literature regarding the use of long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)/long-acting β2 agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/LABA combination inhaler therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) maintenance therapy management.
DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE literature search from database inception to February 2017 was conducted using the search terms chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, adrenergic beta-agonist, muscarinic antagonist, and inhaled corticosteroid.
GINA recommends stepwise pharmacological treatment, advocating inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) plus rapid, long-acting β2-agonists (LABA) delivered in a single inhaler for maintenance and relief at Steps 3 (moderate persistent asthma requiring 1-2 controllers plus as-needed reliever), 4 (severe persistent asthma requiring ≥2 controllers plus as-needed reliever), and 5 (higher level care and/or add-on treatment).
doi: 10.1002/phar.1913.Comparative Effectiveness of Long-Acting Beta(2) -Agonist Combined with a Long-Acting Muscarinic Antagonist or Inhaled Corticosteroid in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.
COPD treatment guidelines currently recommend combination LABA/LAMA as alternative therapy to combination LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS).
2018 Apr 1;197(7):968-969.RATIONALE: Post hoc analyses suggest that blood eosinophils have potential as a predictive biomarker of inhaled corticosteroid efficacy in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).OBJECTIVES: We prospectively investigated the value of blood eosinophils as a predictor of responsiveness to an inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β2-agonist combination versus a long-acting β2-agonist/long-acting muscarinic antagonist combination for exacerbation prevention.
METHODS: We conducted prespecified analyses of data from the FLAME (Effect of Indacaterol Glycopyronium vs Fluticasone Salmeterol on COPD Exacerbations) study, which compared once-daily long-acting β2-agonist/long-acting muscarinic antagonist indacaterol/glycopyrronium 110/50 μg with twice-daily long-acting β2-agonist/inhaled corticosteroid salmeterol/fluticasone combination 50/500 μg in patients with one or more exacerbations in the preceding year.
2012 Jun;17(3):93-5.BACKGROUND: The long-acting bronchodilator tiotropium and single inhaler combination therapy of inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta(2)-agonists are both commonly used for maintenance treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the relative effects of inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta(2)-agonist combination therapy in addition to tiotropium compared to tiotropium or combination therapy alone in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included parallel, randomised controlled trials of three months or longer, comparing inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta(2)-agonists combination therapy in addition to inhaled tiotropium against tiotropium alone or combination therapy alone.
MAIN RESULTS: Three trials (1021 patients) were included comparing tiotropium in addition to inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta(2)-agonist combination therapy to tiotropium alone.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: To date there is uncertainty regarding the long-term benefits and risks of treatment with tiotropium in addition to inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta(2)-agonist combination therapy on mortality, hospitalisation, exacerbations of COPD and pneumonia.
nanninilj@cimero.org.arUpdate in    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007;(4):CD003794.Update of    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2003;(4):CD003794.BACKGROUND: long acting beta agonists and inhaled corticosteroids have both been recommended in guidelines for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy of combined inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta-agonist preparations, compared to placebo or the individual components, in the treatment of adults with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Studies could compare a combined inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta-agonist preparation with either component preparation or placebo.
There were conflicting findings in quality of life scores when budesonide/formoterol was compared with component inhaled corticosteroid or beta-agonist.
doi: 10.2165/00063030-200115010-00002.Long-acting beta-agonist treatment in patients with persistent asthma already receiving inhaled corticosteroids.
International guidelines recommend that long acting beta agonists should be considered in patients who are symptomatic despite moderate doses of inhaled corticosteroids.
When combined with inhaled corticosteroids they improve asthma symptoms and lung function and reduce exacerbations.
However, they are less effective than inhaled corticosteroids as monotherapy and should not be used alone, although the addition of a long-acting beta-agonist may permit a small reduction in the corticosteroid dose.
Insights into pharmacological as well as therapeutic interactions between inhaled corticosteroids and beta-agonists are providing justification for their use in combination.
doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-145-9-200611070-00012.Safety and effectiveness of long-acting inhaled beta-agonist bronchodilators when taken with inhaled corticosteroids.
2006 Nov 7;145(9):710.long acting beta agonists are a pillar of therapy for many patients with asthma because they are the preferred add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids.
Pivotal trials evaluating the benefit of adding long-acting beta-agonists to inhaled corticosteroids were not included.
The authors of the current paper call for physicians to continue their usual practice of using long acting beta agonists as adjunctive therapy, as well as for an independent meta-analysis of individual patients using inhaled corticosteroids and long acting beta agonists concomitantly.
In bronchial epithelial cells recovered from asthmatic vs healthy human subjects, we found FOXa2 and MUC5B gene expression to be reduced and SPDEF and MUC5AC gene expression to be increased; these alterations were not observed in bronchial epithelial cells recovered after treatment with inhaled corticosteroids.
We performed a meta-analysis to compare the impact of triple combination therapy with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs) and long acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMAs) versus LABA/LAMA combination therapy or single long-acting bronchodilator therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Patients with acute exacerbations may benefit from the addition of inhaled corticosteroids, particularly those with elevated peripheral eosinophil levels.
Appropriate use of long-acting maintenance bronchodilators, inhaled corticosteroids, and pulmonary rehabilitation decreases symptoms, optimizes functional performance, and reduces exacerbation frequency.
Oba Y(1), Keeney E, Ghatehorde N, Dias S.Author information:(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, USA.Update of    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD012620.BACKGROUND: Long-acting bronchodilators such as long-acting β-agonist (LABA), long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) combinations have been used in people with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) to control symptoms such as dyspnoea and cough, and prevent exacerbations.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD012066.pub2.long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) plus long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) versus LABA plus inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) for stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).Horita N(1), Goto A(2), Shibata Y(1), Ota E(3), Nakashima K(1), Nagai K(1), Kaneko T(1).Author information:(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine, Fukuura 3-9, Kanazawa, Yokohama, Japan, 236-0004.(2)Metabolic Epidemiology Section, Division of Epidemiology, Center for Public Health Sciences, National Cancer Center, Tokyo, Japan, 5-1-1 Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 104-0045.(3)Global Health Nursing, St. Luke's International University, Graduate School of Nursing Sciences, 10-1 Akashi-cho, Chuo-Ku, Tokyo, Japan, 104-0044.Comment in    Evid Based Med.
2017 Oct;22(5):183-184.BACKGROUND: Three classes of inhaler medications are used to manage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD): long-acting beta-agonists (LABA), long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
2018 Sep 29;392(10153):1112.BACKGROUND: Evidence is scarce on the relative risk-benefit of inhaled triple therapy, consisting of inhaled corticosteroid, long acting muscarinic antagonist, and long-acting beta-agonist, versus dual bronchodilation for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
doi: 10.1164/rccm.201709-1807OC.Intensified Therapy with Inhaled Corticosteroids and Long-Acting β(2)-Agonists at the Onset of Upper Respiratory Tract Infection to Prevent Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Exacerbations.
2018 Oct 15;198(8):1103-1105.RATIONALE: The efficacy of intensified combination therapy with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and long-acting beta-agonists (LABA) at the onset of upper respiratory tract infection (URTI) symptoms in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is unknown.
Vanfleteren L(1)(2)(3), Fabbri LM(1)(4), Papi A(4), Petruzzelli S(5), Celli B(6).Author information:(1)COPD Center, Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden, lowie.vanfleteren@vgregion.se.(2)CIRO, Horn, the Netherlands, lowie.vanfleteren@vgregion.se.(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Hospital, Maastricht, the Netherlands, lowie.vanfleteren@vgregion.se.(4)Section of Cardiorespiratory and Internal Medicine, Department of Medical Sciences, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.(5)Global Clinical Development, Chiesi Farmaceutici SpA, Parma, Italy.(6)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.Recently, two "fixed triple" single-inhaler combinations of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), a long-acting beta-agonist (LABA), and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) have become available for patients with COPD.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011721.pub2.long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to combination long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) versus LABA/ICS for adults with asthma.
Kew KM(1), Dahri K.Author information:(1)Population Health Research Institute, St George's, University of London, Cranmer Terrace, London, UK, SW17 0RE.BACKGROUND: Maintenance treatment with long-acting beta2-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) can relieve asthma symptoms and reduce the frequency of exacerbations, but there are limited treatment options for people who do not gain control on combination LABA/ICS.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of adding a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) to combination long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in adults whose asthma is not well controlled by LABA/ICS.SEARCH METHODS: We identified trials from the Cochrane Airways Review Group Specialised Register (CAGR) up to January 2016.
2017 Jul;5(7):e26.BACKGROUND: Limited data are available for the efficacy of triple therapy with two long-acting bronchodilators and an inhaled corticosteroid in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Incidence of UTI was compared between older people with physician-diagnosed COPD, who were new users of inhaled long-acting anticholinergics and new users of inhaled corticosteroids-a reference medication used in similar clinical settings that has no known association with UTI.
However, in a priori defined stratified analyses, men newly initiated on LAA were 75% more likely to develop a UTI than men newly started on an inhaled corticosteroid (hazard ratio 1.75; 95% confidence interval 1.05-2.92).
Triple therapy consisted of a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), long acting β agonist (LABA), and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS).
Patients initiating tiotropium were matched on high-dimensional propensity scores and prior inhaled corticosteroid use with patients initiating LABAs, and followed for 1 year for the occurrence of acute myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure, arrhythmia, and pneumonia.
RESULTS: A total of 26,442 tiotropium initiators were matched to 26,442 LABA initiators, mainly single inhalers combined with inhaled corticosteroids.
The risk of pneumonia is higher with LABA, a likely effect of the inhaled corticosteroids present in many LABA inhalers used in real world clinical practice.
2019 May 1;9(4):e009183corr1.OBJECTIVE: To compare the safety and effectiveness of long-acting β-antagonists (LABA), long-acting antimuscarinic agents (LAMA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) for managing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).SETTING: Systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA).PARTICIPANTS: 208 randomised clinical trials (RCTs) including 134,692 adults with COPD.INTERVENTIONS: LABA, LAMA and/or ICS, alone or in combination, versus each other or placebo.
The triple combination therapy of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), long-acting beta2 agonists (LABAs), and long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) has become an option for maintenance treatment of COPD and as a "step-up" therapy from single or double combination treatments.
Further beneficial effects of SAMAs and LAMAs are seen when added to existing treatments, including LABAs, inhaled corticosteroids and phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors.
PURPOSE: To assess the comparative efficacy of short-acting muscarinic antagonists (SAMAs), long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), LAMA in combination with long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs; LAMA/LABAs) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in combination with LABA (ICS/LABAs) for the maintenance treatment of COPD.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We systematically reviewed 74 randomized controlled trials (74,832 participants) published up to 15 November 2017, which compared any of the interventions (SAMA [ipratropium], LAMA [aclidinium, glycopyrronium, tiotropium, umeclidinium], LAMA/LABA [aclidinium/formoterol, indacaterol/glycopyrronium, tiotropium/olodaterol, umeclidinium/vilanterol] and ICS/LABA [fluticasone/vilanterol, budesonide/formoterol, salmeterol/fluticasone]) with each other or with placebo.
Concomitant inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use was permitted in all of the included studies (where stated); across the included studies, between 28% to 58% of participants were using ICS at baseline.
doi: 10.1164/rccm.201607-1349OC.Effect of Roflumilast and Inhaled Corticosteroid/Long-Acting beta-Agonist on Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Exacerbations (RE(2)SPOND).
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether roflumilast reduces moderate and/or severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbations in patients at risk for exacerbations despite treatment with inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist with or without a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA).METHODS: In this 52-week, phase 4, double-blind, placebo-controlled RE(2)SPOND (Roflumilast Effect on Exacerbations in Patients on Dual [LABA/ICS] Therapy) trial (NCT01443845), participants aged 40 years or older with severe/very severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic bronchitis, two or more exacerbations and/or hospitalizations in the previous year, and receiving inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist with or without LAMA daily for 3 or more months were equally randomized to once-daily roflumilast, 500 μg (n = 1,178), or placebo (n = 1,176).
eCollection 2017.Long-acting bronchodilators with or without inhaled corticosteroids and 30-day readmission in patients hospitalized for COPD.Bishwakarma R(1), Zhang W(1), Kuo YF(2), Sharma G(3).Author information:(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine.(2)Office of Biostatistics; Sealy Center of Aging, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine; Sealy Center of Aging, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.BACKGROUND: The ability of a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and long-acting beta 2 agonists (LABAs; long-acting bronchodilators, LABDs) with or without inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) to reduce early readmission in hospitalized patients with COPD is unknown.
Meta-regression controlling for post-bronchodilator percentage of tFEV1 predicted at baseline as well as meta-regression adjusting for concomitant use of inhaled corticosteroids at baseline was performed to assess the magnitude of effect modification and produced similar results as observed in the base case analysis.
Several LAMAs are now available for use either as monotherapy or in combination with other COPD medications, including long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs) or inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(16)31354-X. Epub 2016 Sep 1.Single inhaler triple therapy versus inhaled corticosteroid plus long-acting beta-agonist therapy for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (TRILOGY): a double-blind, parallel group, randomised controlled trial.
2018 Apr 1;197(7):944-946.BACKGROUND: Few data are available for the efficacy of "triple therapy" with two long-acting bronchodilators and an inhaled corticosteroid in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
INTERPRETATION: We provide evidence for the clinical benefits of stepping up patients with COPD from an inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist combination treatment to triple therapy using a single inhaler.
The objective of this analysis was to compare the efficacy and safety of LABA/LAMA with LAMA or LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in adults with stable moderate-to-very-severe COPD.METHODS: This systematic review and meta-analysis (PubMed/MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Library and clinical trial/manufacturer databases) included RCTs comparing ≥12 weeks' LABA/LAMA treatment with LAMA and/or LABA/ICS (approved doses only).
INTRODUCTION: We report the results of the first direct comparison of the once-daily fixed-dose long acting muscarinic antagonist/long-acting beta-agonist (LAMA/LABA) combinations umeclidinium/vilanterol (UMEC/VI) and tiotropium/olodaterol (TIO/OLO) in patients with COPD.METHODS: This was a randomized, two-period crossover open-label study in symptomatic patients with COPD [age 40 years or older, postbronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) of 70% or less and 50% or more of predicted normal values, and modified Medical Research Council Dyspnoea Scale score of 2 or greater] not receiving inhaled corticosteroid therapy.
Randomized trials comparing the effectiveness of this combination with the alternative combination of LABA with inhaled corticosteroid (LABA-ICS) have reported conflicting data, while there are no real-world comparative effectiveness and safety studies of these regimens in clinical practice settings.
CIBER de Enfermedades Respiratorias (CIBERES) , Barcelona , Spain.(4)d Airways Disease Section , National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London , London , UK.Triple inhaled therapy for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) consists of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), a long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) and a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) taken in combination.
Dispensings of LABAs, LAMAs and inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) were aggregated into episodes of use of therapeutic regimens.
Epub 2016 May 5.long acting muscarinic Antagonist Versus Inhaled Corticosteroid when Added to Long-acting β-agonist for COPD: A Meta-analysis.
Oba Y(1), Chandran AV(1), Devasahayam JV(1).Author information:(1)a Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Environmental Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Missouri , Columbia , Missouri , USA.The purpose of this study was to systematically review the efficacy and safety of long-acting β-agonist/long acting muscarinic antagonist (LABA/LAMA) and LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) combinations in patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Several studies have documented that long-acting bronchodilators can reduce exacerbation rate and/or severity, and others have shown that combinations of long-acting beta-adrenergic agonists (LABAs) and long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) provide greater reductions in exacerbation frequency than either their monocomponents or LABA/inhaled corticosteroid combinations in patients at low and high risk for these events.
In this review, small groups of experts critically evaluated mechanisms potentially responsible for the increased benefit of LABA/LAMA combinations over single long-acting bronchodilators or LABA/inhaled corticosteroids in decreasing exacerbation.
Patients using inhaled corticosteroids continued this therapy.
doi: 10.1001/jama.2017.11903.Long-Acting β-Agonists (LABA) Combined With long acting muscarinic Antagonists or LABA Combined With Inhaled Corticosteroids for Patients With Stable COPD.Horita N(1), Nagashima A(1), Kaneko T(1).Author information:(1)Department of Pulmonology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama, Japan.
CLINICAL QUESTION: Are inhaled long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) combined with long-acting β-agonists (LABA) associated with differences in the incidence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation and serious adverse events and with differences in quality of life and forced expiratory volume in the first second of expiration (FEV1) vs inhaled LABA plus inhaled corticosteroids therapy for the treatment of stable COPD?BOTTOM LINE: Compared with inhaled LABA combined with corticosteroids, inhaled LAMA combined with LABA may be associated with a lower risk of COPD exacerbation and with greater improvement in FEV1 without differences in the incidence of serious severe adverse events or quality of life.
The role of the anti-inflammatory and bronchodilator triple therapy, including a long acting ß2-agonist (LABA), a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), in the prevention of the exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is still not clearly established, and requires comparison with dual therapy (LABA-CSI or LABA-LAMA).
Smoking cessations, prevention of infections, long-acting anticholinergics, long-acting 2 agonists, inhaled corticosteroids, phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitors, mucolytics, prophilactic antibiotics can be effective on the prevention of COPD exacerbations.
Patients with asthma and COPD had higher disease burden indicators and inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist use compared with COPD alone.
The relative merits of treating with different inhaled combination therapies e.g. inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)/long-acting beta-agonist (LABA), LABA/long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), ICS/LABA/LAMA, in this patient group are poorly understood, as is reflected in current guidelines.
Hurst JR(1), Dilleen M(2), Morris K(3), Hills S(3), Emir B(4), Jones R(5).Author information:(1)UCL Respiratory, University College London, London, UK.(2)Statistics, Global Product Development, Pfizer, Tadworth, UK.(3)Medical Affairs, Pfizer, Tadworth, UK.(4)Biostatistics, Global Product Development, Pfizer, New York, NY, USA.(5)Clinical Trials & Health Research, Institute of Translational and Stratified Medicine, Plymouth University Peninsula Schools of Medicine and Dentistry, Plymouth, UK.PURPOSE: Inappropriate use of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) for COPD has clinical and economic disadvantages.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study identified patients with COPD who were newly prescribed a LABD (long acting muscarinic antagonist [LAMA], long-acting beta2-agonist [LABA], a combination of LABA+LAMA or combination of LABA with inhaled corticosteroid [ICS]/LABA) between January 1, 2009 and November 30, 2013 from the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink.
Epub 2018 Mar 25.Seventeen-Year Nationwide Trends in Use of Long-acting Bronchodilators and Inhaled Corticosteroids among Adults - A Danish Drug Utilization Study.
Long-acting bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are the cornerstones in treatment of chronic obstructive and inflammatory pulmonary diseases.
RESULTS: The use of maintenance therapies, such as long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), long acting beta agonists (LABAs), inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), and theophylline, did not differ significantly between physically active (N = 346) and inactive (N = 355) COPD patients.
Epub 2016 Sep 22.Incidence of oral thrush in patients with COPD prescribed inhaled corticosteroids: Effect of drug, dose, and device.
Some patients with COPD have predominantly eosinophilic inflammation and might respond to high doses of inhaled corticosteroids and newly developed specific antieosinophil therapies, including blocking antibodies against IL-5, IL-13, IL-33, and thymic stromal lymphopoietin, as well as oral chemoattractant receptor-homologous molecule expressed on TH2 cells antagonists.
Some patients with overlap syndromes can be conveniently treated with triple fixed-dose combination inhaler therapy with an inhaled corticosteroid, long-acting beta-agonist, and long acting muscarinic antagonist, several of which are now in development.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess the current evidence for long-acting beta-agonist (LABA)/long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) fixed-dose combinations (FDCs) in the treatment of COPD.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic literature search of randomized controlled trials published in English up to September 2017 of LABA/LAMA FDCs vs LABA or LAMA or LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) FDCs in COPD patients was performed using PubMed, Embase, Scopus, and Google Scholar.
2019 May;155(5):1079-1080.BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) combination is commonly prescribed to treat COPD; therefore, we performed a meta-analysis on the effect of adding a long acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (LAMA) to ICS/LABA combination in COPD.METHODS: Studies were identified by searching in different databases the randomized controlled trials that investigated the effect of ICS/LABA/LAMA combination in COPD.
2018 Nov;6(11):807-808.BACKGROUND: Long-acting beta agonists (LABAs) and long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) are the recommended initial maintenance treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), with almost all LABAs dispensed in fixed combination with inhaled corticosteroids (LABA-ICS).
Epub 2017 Jul 5.Risk of Cardiovascular and Cerebrovascular Events in COPD Patients Treated With Long-Acting β(2)-Agonist Combined With a long acting muscarinic or Inhaled Corticosteroid.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular (CCV) events associated with LABA/LAMA compared with a combination of LABA and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS).METHODS: This was a retrospective, observational cohort study using health insurance claims data to identify COPD patients initiating LABA/LAMA or LABA/ICS.
In individuals with persistent symptoms or frequent exacerbations, inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are also used.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effect of adding an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) to combination long-acting beta₂-agonist (LABA)/long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) inhalers for the treatment of stable COPD.SEARCH METHODS: We carried out searches using the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register of Trials (searched 20 September 2016), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2015, Issue 12) in the Cochrane Library (searched 15 December 2015) and MEDLINE (searched 15 December 2015).
Based on currently available data on adding inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) to a LABA, ICS might be added to a LABA/LAMA combination in exacerbating patients who have an asthma-COPD overlap syndrome or high blood eosinophil counts, while in exacerbators with chronic bronchitis, consideration should be given to treating with a phosphodiesterase (PDE)-4 inhibitor (roflumilast) or high-dose mucolytic agents.
Petite SE(1).Author information:(1)1 University of Toledo College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Toledo, OH, USA.OBJECTIVE: To compare the available literature regarding the use of long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA)/long-acting beta agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/LABA combination inhaler therapy in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) maintenance therapy management.
DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE literature search from database inception to February 2017 was conducted using the search terms chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, adrenergic beta-agonist, muscarinic antagonist, and inhaled corticosteroid.
Compared to the overall FLAME population, the Asian cohort had more males, a shorter duration of COPD, fewer patients using inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) at screening, fewer current smokers, and more patients with very severe COPD.
The move towards increasing duration of bronchodilator action is generally paralleled by improved effects on clinical outcomes, and the advent of more potent agents seems likely to provide an opportunity to reduce overreliance on the use of inhaled corticosteroids in treating COPD.
One recommended treatment option is fixed-dose combination therapy of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β-agonist.
Combination therapy with an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and a long-acting β-agonist (LABA) is considered an important approach for treating patients with asthma and patients with severe COPD who have frequent exacerbations.
RESULTS: 67.6% of the patients received a combination of a long-acting anticholinergic drug (LAMA) and a long-acting beta-mimetic drug (LABA), while 65.8% received inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), 11.7% theophylline, and 12.6% oral corticosteroids (OCS).
suelangham@maverex.com.(2)Maverex Limited, Manchester, UK.(3)University of Michigan, Women's Respiratory Clinic, Ann Arbor, USA.(4)University of Dundee and Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee, UK.BACKGROUND: Guidelines recommend that treatment with a long-acting beta agonist (LABA), a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), i.e. triple therapy, is reserved for a select group of symptomatic patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who continue to exacerbate despite treatment with dual therapy (LABA/LAMA).
LABA/LAMA fixed-dose combinations (FDCs) can also significantly improve lung function, dyspnea, symptoms and health status and reduce exacerbations and rescue medication use versus an inhaled corticosteroid/LABA, with a comparable safety profile and lower incidence of pneumonia.
Epub 2017 Aug 31.Tracheobronchopathy From Inhaled Corticosteroids.
BACKGROUND: No observational studies have evaluated the "real-world" effectiveness of dual bronchodilation comprising a long-acting beta-agonist plus a long acting muscarinic antagonist vs that of triple therapy (long-acting beta-agonist plus long acting muscarinic antagonist plus inhaled corticosteroid) in COPD.MATERIALS AND METHODS: DACCORD is a non-interventional, observational clinical study that recruited patients following COPD maintenance therapy initiation or change in maintenance therapy between or within therapeutic class.
Update of    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011;(3):CD008532.BACKGROUND: The long-acting bronchodilator tiotropium and single-inhaler combination therapy of inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta2-agonists (ICS/LABA) are commonly used for maintenance treatment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
MAIN RESULTS: Tiotropium plus LABA/ICS versus tiotropiumWe included six studies (1902 participants) with low risk of bias that compared tiotropium in addition to inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta2-agonist combination therapy versus tiotropium alone.
There are concerns regarding long-term complications (weight gain, osteoporosis, cataract) and increased risk of community-acquired pneumonia with the use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
SUMMARY: Data from clinical trials and from real-life confirm the safety and efficacy of LAMAs, especially tiotropium, in patients who remain uncontrolled despite the use of inhaled corticosteroid therapy.
However, inhaled medications such as long-acting beta-2 agonist (LABA), long acting muscarinic agonist, and inhaled corticosteroid plus LABA were dispensed to a relatively low proportion of patients with COPD.
After adjustment, hazard ratios (HRs) for long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist (ICS/LABA) combinations were lower (time-dependent model, 1 year: LAMA, HR 0.51, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.49-0.54; ICS/LABA combinations, HR 0.61, 95% CI 0.60-0.62; all P < .0001) than were those for LABAs or ICSs in patients with COPD and asthma.
Epub 2017 Nov 15.A review of current and developing fixed-dose LABA/LAMA combinations for treating COPD.Lal C(1), Strange C(1).Author information:(1)a Pulmonary, Critical Care, Allergy and Sleep Medicine , Medical University of South Carolina , Charleston , SC , USA.The current GOLD (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease) recommendations suggest using long acting beta agonists (LABA) and long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) in combination for group B COPD patients with persistent symptoms, group C COPD patients with further exacerbations on LAMA therapy alone and for group D COPD patients with or without combination with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
The current clinical use of LABA/LAMA combinations in COPD will continue to evolve as new trials with and without inhaled corticosteroids are completed.
The most effective steps to reduce functional decline were considered to be smoking cessation, followed by long-acting beta-agonist (LABA)/long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), LAMA, LABA, and finally inhaled corticosteroid/LABA (P<0.01 for each paired comparison).
The available agents approved for COPD treatment are long-acting or ultra-long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs) and long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) bronchodilators, as well as inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in combination with LABAs.
The Prospective cohort study for the real-life effectiveness evaluation of glycOpyrronium With indacatERol combination in the management of COPD in Canada (POWER) study evaluated the real-life effectiveness of indacaterol/glycopyrronium (IND/GLY) following a direct switch from a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA, tiotropium) or long-acting beta-agonist (LABA)/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) maintenance treatment (salmeterol/fluticasone [SFC]).METHODS: POWER was a single-cohort, prospective, multicenter, interventional study in which patients with moderate-to-severe COPD, who remained symptomatic on their current treatment of once-daily (od) tiotropium 18 µg or twice-daily (bid) SFC (any dose), were switched to treatment with open-label IND/GLY 110/50 µg od for 16 weeks.
Relaxation of airway smooth muscle with inhaled bronchodilators is the cornerstone of treatment for stable COPD, with inhaled corticosteroids reserved for those with a history of exacerbations.
Combinations of long-acting bronchodilator agents (LAMA/LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids combined with LABA (ICS/LABA) are also used as initial or follow-up therapy in patients with more severe symptoms or at risk of COPD exacerbations.
However, inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), a key medicine for bronchial asthma, is limitedly used in COPD treatment.
doi: 10.1002/phar.1913.Comparative Effectiveness of Long-Acting Beta(2) -Agonist Combined with a long acting muscarinic Antagonist or Inhaled Corticosteroid in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease.
COPD treatment guidelines currently recommend combination LABA/LAMA as alternative therapy to combination LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS).
RESULTS: The pharmacy cost of COPD increased from 2004 to 2010 due to the increased utilization of long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) and fixed-dose combination of long-acting beta-agonist and inhaled corticosteroid (LABA/ICS), whereas the cost of all other COPD-related medications decreased.
Epub 2018 Sep 6.Preventing Clinically Important Deterioration of COPD with Addition of Umeclidinium to Inhaled Corticosteroid/Long-Acting β(2)-Agonist Therapy: An Integrated Post Hoc Analysis.
This analysis assessed whether providing additional bronchodilation with the long acting muscarinic antagonist umeclidinium (UMEC) to patients treated with inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) therapy would improve disease stability compared with ICS/LABA therapy alone.
Short-acting beta-agonists (~63% patients), inhaled corticosteroids/long-acting beta-agonist fixed-dose combination (~62% patients), and long acting muscarinic antagonists (~59% patients) were the most frequently used medications at all visits, regardless of severity.
The deviation comprised high use of inhaled corticosteroid-containing regimens in ~45% and 63% of patients in GOLD groups A and B, respectively.
RESULTS: The availability of inhaled short acting beta agonists (SABA), oral leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRA), inhaled LABA-ICS combinations and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in all the study sites was 75%, 60.8%, 46.9% and 45.4% respectively.
METHODS: This retrospective study of patients with COPD, newly initiated on long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) monotherapy or inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist (ICS/LABA) combination therapy, assessed baseline demographics, clinical characteristics, and exacerbations during 12 months prior to first LAMA or ICS/LABA use.
New ultra-long-acting beta-agnoists (ultra-LABAs) have been developed, some of which have been licensed for use as monotherapy and/or in combination with other bronchodilators or inhaled corticosteroids, for use in COPD patients with persistent symptoms and worsening airflow limitation.
The latter recommendation is based on recent trial evidence demonstrating the superior efficacy of a fixed-dose LABA/LAMA over an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/LABA in exacerbation prevention.
It also discusses the use of inhaled glycopyrrolate in the treatment of COPD, as monotherapy and in fixed-dose combinations with LABAs and inhaled corticosteroid-LABAs, including a triple therapy recently approved in Europe.
Price D(1), Miravitlles M(2), Pavord I(3), Thomas M(4), Wedzicha J(5), Haughney J(1), Bichel K(6), West D(6).Author information:(1)Centre of Academic Primary Care, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.(2)Department of Pneumology, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Ciber de Enfermedades Respiratorias (CIBERES), Barcelona, Spain.(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.(4)Department of Primary Care Research, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.(5)Airway Disease Section, National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College, London, UK.(6)Research in Real-Life Ltd, Cambridge, UK.Clinical guidelines recommend long-acting bronchodilators as first maintenance therapy for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) reserved for patients with more severe disease and exacerbations.
The type of medication was assessed as: short-acting β-agonist (SABA) or short-acting muscarinic antagonist (SAMA) only, long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), long-acting β-agonist (LABA), LABA/LAMA, inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), ICS/LABA, ICS/LAMA/LABA, or other.
At baseline, GOLD group D patients were the most adherent (81.2%) to treatment recommendations, while group A patients were the least adherent (30.3%) at baseline, attributed mainly to overuse of inhaled corticosteroids in less severe GOLD groups.
Triple therapy with long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) + long-acting beta-agonist/inhaled corticosteroid (LABA/ICS) was the most frequent prescribed treatment at all study visits, irrespective of patient's exacerbation history.
They are represented by long-acting bronchodilators (anticholinergics or beta2-agonists) and by inhaled corticosteroids, currently available as a monotherapy or as combination therapies in one inhaler.
Combinations of anticholinergics and beta2 agonists or beta2 agonists and inhaled corticosteroids are widely used per the prescription guidelines.
PURPOSE: GOLD guidelines classify COPD patients into A-D groups based on health status as assessed by COPD Assessment Test (CAT) or mMRC tools and exacerbations and recommend single or dual long-acting bronchodilators as maintenance therapy, with additional inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) if the disease remains uncontrolled.
Electronic address: michael.r.bogart@gsk.com.(2)Ethicon, US Route 22, Somerville, NJ, USA.(3)GSK, 5 Moore Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA; Division of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.BACKGROUND: It is unknown whether there is a benefit to initiating triple therapy (TT; inhaled corticosteroids combined with long-acting beta-agonists and long acting muscarinic antagonists) promptly (within 30 days) following a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)-related hospitalization or emergency-department (ED) visit compared with delaying treatment (31-180 days).METHODS: This retrospective, observational study (GSK: HO-15-15256) used healthcare claims from a commercial and Medicare claims database (January 1, 2008-December 31, 2015).PATIENTS: ≥40 years of age, diagnosed with COPD and no history of TT 12 months pre-index.
Maintenance pharmacological treatment for stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is based on inhaled drugs, including long acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMA), long-acting beta-adrenoceptor agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
At present in Japan, fixed combinations of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) and LABAs are frequently prescribed in the earlier stages of COPD.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) management is changing with the advent of newer inhaled medications and devices that belong to the current group of therapies [i.e. inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), long-acting beta agonists (LABAs) and long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs)], providing patients as well as physicians with a wider range of options.
Novel inhaler therapies including combination long acting muscarinic agents plus long acting beta agonists show promising results compared with monotherapy or a long-acting beta agonist inhaled corticosteroid combination in reducing exacerbation risk among individuals at risk for exacerbations and among frequent exacerbators.
The guideline adherence rate for pharmacological treatment ranged from 47.7% to 58.1% in the three clinic visits over 12 months, with overprescription of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) and underutilization of long-acting BDs in group B COPD patients.
According to the latest GOLD (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease) guidelines, a combination of inhaled corticosteroids, long-acting beta agonists, and long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonists can be used for group D COPD patients who are at high risk for exacerbations.
Patients in both groups were just as likely to receive inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs), but patients with incompatible spirometry were less likely to receive long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs) (P<0.001) or LABA/ICS (P = 0.002) combinations.
Trudo F(1), Kern DM(2), Davis JR(1), Tunceli O(2), Zhou S(2), Graham EL(3), Strange C(4), Williams SA(1).Author information:(1)AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, Wilmington, DE, USA.(2)HealthCore, Inc., Wilmington, DE, USA.(3)AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, Alderley Park, Cheshire, UK.(4)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA.BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist combinations and/or long acting muscarinic antagonists are recommended first-line therapies for preventing chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation.
Comparative effectiveness of budesonide/formoterol combination (BFC, an inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist combination) vs tiotropium (long-acting muscarinic antagonist) in the US has not yet been studied.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD012355.pub2.Once-daily long-acting beta₂-agonists/inhaled corticosteroids combined inhalers versus inhaled long acting muscarinic antagonists for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Update of    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD012355.BACKGROUND: Three classes of inhaler medication are used to manage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD): long-acting beta₂-agonists (LABA); long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA); and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
OBJECTIVES: To compare a once-daily combination of inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting beta₂-agonist inhalers (ICS/LABA) versus inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonists alone (LAMA) for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).SEARCH METHODS: We performed an electronic search of the Specialised Register of the Cochrane Airways Group (14 May 2018), ClinicalTrials.gov (14 May 2018), and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (20 September 2017), then a search of other resources, including reference lists of included studies and manufacturers' trial registers (10 October 2017).
It is now evident that patients with asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) can also benefit from the use of fixed dose combinations, including combinations of a long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), and combinations of LABAs and long acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMAs).
The monotherapy period spanned the first prescription of a long-acting beta-adrenergic agonist or a long acting muscarinic antagonist until the end of the study (December 31, 2013) or until step up to dual/triple therapy, for example, addition of another long-acting bronchodilator, an inhaled corticosteroid, or both.
The use of the new class of long acting muscarinic antagonist/long-acting beta-adrenergic agonist fixed-dose combinations may provide a useful step-up treatment option in such monotherapy patients, before the use of inhaled corticosteroids.
The management includes pharmacological therapy that is disease specific such as antibiotic therapy for cystic fibrosis, antifibrotic drugs in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis; long-acting beta-agonists, long-acting muscarinic antagonist, and inhaled corticosteroids in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; and vasodilators in pulmonary arterial hypertension.
BACKGROUND: This study assessed patient-level characteristics and patterns of medication use in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) before initiation of multiple inhaler triple therapy (MITT; long-acting muscarinic antagonist/long-acting beta-agonist/inhaled corticosteroid [ICS/LAMA/LABA] combination).METHODS: This retrospective study was conducted using the Optum Research Database.
eCollection 2017.Initiation of triple therapy maintenance treatment among patients with COPD in the US.Simeone JC(1), Luthra R(2), Kaila S(2), Pan X(1), Bhagnani TD(1), Liu J(1), Wilcox TK(1).Author information:(1)Real-World Evidence, Evidera, Waltham, MA.(2)HEOR Value Demonstration Team, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Ridgefield, CT, USA.BACKGROUND: The Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) recommends triple therapy (long acting muscarinic receptor antagonists, long-acting beta-2 agonists, and inhaled corticosteroids) for patients with only the most severe COPD.
A long acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (LAMA) added to an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting beta-adrenoceptor agonist (LABA) fixed-dose combination (FDC) can improve efficacy of pharmacological treatment of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
BACKGROUND: Triple combination therapy involving long acting muscarinic antagonists long-acting beta agonists, and inhaled corticosteroids has recently become an option for maintenance treatment of COPD.
This study was registered with UMIN (UMIN000003470, April 10, 2010).RESULTS: A total of 95 of the 445 COPD patients (21%) were treated with inhaled corticosteroids/long-acting beta agonists/long acting muscarinic antagonists as maintenance therapy, including 12 in COPD Grade I, 31 in Grade II, 38 in Grade III, and 14 in Grade IV, based on the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease spirometric grading.
Cost Effectiveness of the Long-Acting beta-Adrenergic Agonist (LABA)/Long-Acting Muscarinic Antagonist Dual Bronchodilator Indacaterol/Glycopyrronium Versus the LABA/Inhaled Corticosteroid Combination Salmeterol/Fluticasone in Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: Analyses Conducted for Canada, France, Italy, and Portugal.
Comparators included other US Food and Drug Administration-approved LABA/LAMA fixed-dose combinations as well as commonly prescribed LAMA and LABA/inhaled corticosteroid agents.
For GOLD D patients based on frequent or severe exacerbations, there was a good consensus for LABA/LAMA/inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) as first choice in the Belgian group.
The major alteration has been in the section concerning treatment with inhalation medication - now aiming at an easy stepwise up-titration of long-acting medicine as well as a guide of how to down-titrate inhaled corticosteroids.
The most commonly prescribed regimens were inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist (ICS/LABA) + long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA); (ACOS 30%, asthma 1.4%, and COPD 32%), ICS/LABA (19%, 41.5%, and 17%, respectively), and LAMA (6%, 0.4%, and 19%, respectively); 18% of patients with ACOS were not prescribed an ICS.
Trials that reported outcomes in patients with mild to moderate COPD included 2 trials of long-acting β-agonists (LABAs) (n = 3174), 1 RCT of LABAs and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) (n = 1097), 5 RCTs of the long acting muscarinic antagonist tiotropium (n = 4592), and 6 RCTs of ICS (n = 3983).
After a two-week run in on inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and long acting beta-2 agonist (LABA): beclometasone/formoterol 100/6 µg, patients' started additional a long acting muscarinic receptor antagonist: (LAMA) Tiotropium 18 µg, with concomitant weekly dose titration of bisoprolol: 1.25-2.5-5 mg.
A single inhaler containing inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting beta-agonist (LABA)/long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) is a more convenient way of delivering triple therapy in patients with COPD.
Before hospitalization, women were less likely to have pulmonary function testing (76% vs. 78%; P = 0.01) or be treated with antimuscarinic (43% vs. 48%) or combined long-acting bronchodilator/inhaled corticosteroid (61% vs. 64%) inhalers.
Covelli H(1), Pek B(2), Schenkenberger I(3), Scott-Wilson C(4), Emmett A(5), Crim C(4).Author information:(1)Kootenai Health, Coeur d'Alene, ID, USA.(2)Clinique de Pneumologie et de Sommeil de Lanaudière, Quebec, Canada.(3)Klinische Forschung, Berlin, Germany.(4)GlaxoSmithKline Inc., Research Triangle Park, Durham, NC, USA.(5)PAREXEL International, Durham, NC, USA.BACKGROUND: Fluticasone furoate/vilanterol (FF/VI) is a novel, once-daily, inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist combination approved for the treatment of COPD and asthma.
doi: 10.1002/jcph.750.Role of Tiotropium in Reducing Exacerbations of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease When Combined With Long-Acting β(2) -Agonists and Inhaled Corticosteroids: The OUTPUL Study.
We assessed the effect of tiotropium in reducing COPD exacerbations when combined with long-acting beta agonists (LABA) and/or inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
2018 Dec;23(12):1088-1089.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Combination long-acting beta -agonist/long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LABA/LAMA) has demonstrated superior clinical outcomes over LABA/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients; however, data from blinded randomized controlled trials on direct switching from LABA/ICS to LABA/LAMA are lacking.
Patients received triple therapy (long acting muscarinic antagonist and long-acting beta-agonist/inhaled corticosteroid [ICS]) for 6 weeks, and were randomized to continue triple therapy or stepwise withdrawal of the ICS (dual bronchodilator group).
Epub 2014 Dec 23."Correct use of inhaled corticosteroids in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease": a consensus document.[Article in English, Spanish]Alcázar Navarrete B(1), Casanova C(2), Miravitlles M(3), de Lucas P(4), Riesco JA(5), Rodríguez González-Moro JM(4); Working Group “Consensus document on the appropriate use of inhaled corticosteroids in COPD”.
2016 Apr;52(4):229.INTRODUCTION: Indications for inhaled corticosteroids (IC) in combination with long-acting bronchodilators (LABD) are well defined in clinical practice guidelines.
Adding inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) to LABA and LAMA (triple therapy) for a prevention of exacerbations results in a further reduction of exacerbations, especially in those patients with higher blood eosinophil counts.
Their association with inhaled corticosteroids is recommended only for patients with severe or very severe airflow limitation or with frequent exacerbations despite bronchodilator treatment.
All individuals with COPD aged 67 years and older in 2008 who were not taking inhaled long-acting bronchodilators or inhaled corticosteroids were followed for 2 years.
A lower proportion of Japanese patients used inhaled corticosteroids, short-acting muscarinic antagonists, or short- or long-acting β-adrenergic agonists at baseline, but use of long acting muscarinic antagonists was higher.
doi: 10.1517/14656566.2015.1067682.A re-evaluation of the role of inhaled corticosteroids in the management of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
INTRODUCTION: Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) (in fixed combinations with long-acting beta-agonists [LABAs]) are frequently prescribed for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), outside their labeled indications and recommended treatment strategies and guidelines, despite having the potential to cause significant side effects.
demonstrated superior improvements in lung function, dyspnoea and overall health status and better tolerability against LABA or LAMA monotherapies and combination of LABA and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in more than 11,000 patients with moderate-to-severe COPD in several randomised controlled clinical trials.
COPD patients were more likely to receive outpatient inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting bronchodilators and anticholinergics (P<0.001) as would be clinically appropriate.
We documented the percentage of patients receiving major inhaled COPD-related medications, including short-acting beta-2 adrenoreceptor agonists (SABA), long-acting beta-2 adrenoreceptor agonists (LABA), inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), short-acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (SAMA), and long acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMA).
In the trials assessed, the safety of tiotropium was found to be comparable with that of placebo and alternative therapeutic options, including a doubling in the dose of inhaled corticosteroids and the long-acting beta-agonist salmeterol.
Pharmacologic maintenance drugs (such as bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids) play an important role in the treatment of COPD.
Papers reported the cost effectiveness of long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) monotherapy (n = 6), phosphodiesterase (PDE)-4 inhibitors (n = 4), long-acting beta agonist/inhaled corticosteroid (LABA/ICS) combinations (n = 4), LABA monotherapy (n = 2) and LABA/LAMA combinations (n = 2).
METHODS: To reduce heterogeneity, the current analyses include patients receiving indacaterol/glycopyrronium at baseline, and who, prior to the study, were receiving no COPD maintenance medication ('none'), LABA or LAMA monotherapy ('mono'), LABA plus inhaled corticosteroid (ICS; 'LABA/ICS'), or triple therapy ('triple').
Preliminary clinical studies suggest that inhaled LAMAs may be comparable to long-acting beta2-agonists (LABAs) as an add-on therapy in patients not controlled by inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) alone, and may also have added benefit in patients not controlled on combined ICS-LABA.
There are three main pharmaceutical classes currently available including long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), long-acting beta-agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
eCollection 2018.Risk of Cardiovascular Events Associated with Inhaled Corticosteroid Treatment in Patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease: A Meta-Analysis.
BACKGROUND: The cardiovascular (CV) safety of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is controversial because different studies have suggested that ICSs either increase or reduce the risk of CV events in COPD patients.
long acting muscarinic antagonists and inhaled corticosteroids, which are commonly used in COPD, have 1-year treatment NNTs between 15 and 20 for exacerbation prevention in unselected patients with COPD.
For example, NNT for inhaled corticosteroids is 9 in patients with a blood eosinophil count ≥ 300 cells/μL and 8 for long-acting muscarinic antagonists in patients with a body mass index ≤ 20 kg/m2 .
This study describes COPD treatment in France, focusing on identifying initial treatment modifications in patients with COPD who either initiated long-acting bronchodilator (LABD)-based therapy or escalated to triple therapy (long acting muscarinic antagonist [LAMA] + long-acting beta-agonist [LABA] + inhaled corticosteroid [ICS]).METHODS: This retrospective analysis of patients with COPD in a large general practitioner database (IQVIA Longitudinal Patient Database) in France included two cohorts: Cohort 1 - new initiators of LABD-based therapy (LAMA, LABA, LAMA + LABA, LAMA + ICS, LABA + ICS or LAMA + LABA + ICS); Cohort 2 - patients escalating to triple therapy from mono- or dual-bronchodilator-based maintenance treatment.
PURPOSE: A subset of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) experience a decrease in exacerbation frequency, leading to a diminished need for treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) guidelines suggest using inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in patients with severe airflow limitation or those at high risk of exacerbations.
Prescription data were described by the three maintenance inhaled medication classes used, inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), long-acting beta agonist (LABA), long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), and their combinations, dual LABA-ICS, dual LAMA-LABA, or triple therapy LABA-ICS-LAMA.
Long-acting anti-cholinergic agents, beta-agonists, inhaled corticosteroids, antibiotics and mucolytics are few of the agents currently used in the treatment of COPD, which improve the symptoms and overall quality of life.
PURPOSE: Although tiotropium (TIO) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β-agonists are frequently prescribed together, the efficacy of "triple therapy" has not been scientifically demonstrated.
LABA/inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) inhalers have been proved to be particularly efficient in patients with ≥ 2 exacerbations per year.
Patients identified as taking an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting β agonist (LABA) inhaler and a long acting muscarinic agonist (LAMA) inhaler were changed to a LAMA/LABA inhaler and an ICS inhaler.
METHODS: Information on inhaled medication use collected via questionnaire annually for 4 years was compiled into therapeutic classes (long-acting antimuscarinic agent, long-acting β-agonist, inhaled corticosteroids [ICS], and combinations thereof).
The triple therapy term covers the combination of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), long-acting β-receptor agonist (LABA) and long acting beta agonists drug (LAMA) in one or in separate inhalers.
Fixed combinations of long-acting beta-agonists (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroids have been used for COPD treatment as the standard of care for many years.
Different long-term therapeutic strategies have been proposed so far in order to prevent and/or reduce the clinical and social impact of these events, the majority of which were extrapolated from trials initially focused on the effect of long-acting muscarinic antagonist and subsequently on the efficacy of long-acting beta-agonists in combination or not with inhaled corticosteroids.
We searched for prescription fills for inhaled corticosteroids, long-acting β-agonists, and long acting beta agonistss and calculated adherence starting at the first fill.
Adherence to long-acting beta-agonists and/or inhaled corticosteroids (LABA and/or ICS) and health-care utilization were analysed 1 year before and 2 years after initiation of Tiotropium.
Combination therapies of long-acting β-adrenoceptor agonists (LABA)/long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)/LABA had the highest success rates at 80 and 50%, respectively.
However, little is known about the relative characteristics of these patients and their rates of escalation to triple therapy (TT, combining a LAMA, LABA, and inhaled corticosteroid).
METHODS: This analysis assessed the cost-effectiveness of the following in COPD: UMEC + fluticasone furoate/vilanterol 100/25 μg (FF/VI); UMEC + fluticasone propionate/salmeterol 250/50 μg (FP/SAL); and UMEC + several alternative choices of inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist (ICS/LABA).
For patients with continued exacerbations, inhaled corticosteroids can be added to LABA-LAMA therapy.
Epub 2015 Oct 29.The Effect on Total Mortality of Adding Inhaled Corticosteroids to Long-Acting Bronchodilators for COPD: A Real Practice Analysis in Italy.
Although the benefits of adding inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) to LB are still unclear, patients who experience repeated exacerbations are suggested to add ICS to their LB treatment.
When analyzing patients with recent out-of-hospital exacerbations, the benefit of the combination therapy was more pronounced, HR = 0.63 (95% CI: 0.44-0.90; p-value: 0.012).DISCUSSION: Our findings showed a beneficial effect on mortality of adding inhaled corticosteroids to long-acting bronchodilators.
Among HF+COPD patients taking inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) with long-acting β-agonist (LABA) and long acting muscarinic antagonist, 27% of patients were taking an ACEI/ARB with β-blockers (n=778) versus 46% taking an ACEI/ARB without β-blockers (n=1316).
BACKGROUND: Inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) with long-acting beta-2 agonists is a well-documented combination therapy for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) based on its additive anti-inflammatory properties.
In case of frequent exacerbations and a FEV1≤70%, a fixed dose long-acting bronchodilator combination or a LABA+ inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) combination can be proposed.
METHODS: Four subgroup analyses were performed: Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) 2/3, GOLD A/B/C/D, treatment naive/not treatment naive and receiving inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) at baseline/not receiving ICS at baseline.
INTRODUCTION: long acting muscarinic antagonists confer improvements in spirometry when used in addition to inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta-agonists (ICS/LABA) in COPD.
Given the current concerns over unnecessary inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use in COPD, we also touch briefly on the use of blood eosinophils as a biomarker for identifying those patients with COPD already using LAMA/LABA therapy for whom the addition of ICS might be of benefit.
Long-acting beta-2 agonist + long-acting muscarinic antagonist + inhaled corticosteroid regimen was the most common treatment (62.0%).
doi: 10.1136/dtb.2017.12.0562.Single inhaler triple therapy for COPD.[No authors listed]The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has granted marketing authorisation for a pressurised metered dose inhaler (pMDI) containing beclometasone dipropionate, formoterol fumarate dihydrate and glycopyrronium bromide (Trimbow - Chiesi Pharmaceuticals) for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in patients not adequately treated with a combination of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and a long-acting beta2 agonist (LABA).1-3 The manufacturer claims that this is a significant treatment advance for COPD patients, and that the use of one inhaler should simplify therapy and, therefore, may improve adherence.1 Here, we consider the evidence for this product for the management of patients with moderate to severe COPD, and how it fits with current management strategies.
Individuals were excluded if they were prescribed an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or ICS/LABA two months prior to the index date or were diagnosed with cystic fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, or asthma.
Cox proportional hazard regressions and two-stage propensity score calibration were performed to determine the impact of various inhaled therapies including short-acting muscarinic antagonists, long acting muscarinic antagonists, short-acting β-agonists (SABAs), long-acting β-agonists (LABAs), and LABA plus inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), on the risk after adjustment for patient demographic characteristics and comorbid disorders.
The LAMA tiotropium is approved for maintenance in symptomatic asthma patients despite the use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRA) and/or long-acting beta2 agonists (LABA).
Using the CID measure, we demonstrated that dual bronchodilation with IND/GLY significantly reduced the risk of CID versus either long acting muscarinic antagonist or long-acting beta-agonist/inhaled corticosteroid treatment, providing further evidence for the benefit of dual bronchodilation in this patient population.
Multiple statistical models were applied to explain five treatment categories: A: no COPD treatment or short-acting bronchodilator(s) only; B: one long-acting bronchodilator (beta2 agonist, LABA or anticholinergic agent, LAMA); C: LABA+LAMA; D: a LABA or LAMA + inhaled corticosteroid (ICS); E: triple therapy (LABA+LAMA+ICS).RESULTS: Mean FEV1 was 60% predicted.
Electronic address: laurie.a.lee@gsk.com.(2)Clinical Research Institute of Southern Oregon, PC, 3860 Crater Lake Ave, Medford, OR 97504, USA.(3)GSK, 5 Moore Dr, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA.(4)GSK, 1250 S Collegeville Rd, Collegeville, PA 19426, USA.(5)Biostatistics, PAREXEL International, 2520 Meridian Pkwy #200, Durham, NC 27713, USA.(6)GSK, Stockley Park West, Uxbridge, Middlesex UB11 1BT, UK.INTRODUCTION: The long acting muscarinic antagonist, umeclidinium (UMEC), combined with the inhaled corticosteroid, fluticasone furoate (FF), improves lung function in symptomatic patients with asthma.
METHODS: Twenty-one patients diagnosed with COPD received roflumilast once daily for 6 months in combination with fluticasone (an inhaled corticosteroid), salmeterol (a long-acting beta-agonist), and tiotropium (a long acting muscarinic antagonist) or combinations of these agents.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011438.pub2.long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) versus addition of long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) for adults with asthma.
Long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) are the preferred add-on treatment for adults with asthma whose symptoms are not well controlled on inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), but have important safety concerns in asthma.
Patients included in the study initiated a long-acting beta-agonist (LABA), a long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA), or a combination of LABA and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS/LABA) between January 1, 2009, and November 30, 2013, as recorded in the United Kingdom Clinical Practice Research Datalink (UK CPRD).
2019 Apr;36(4):962-968.The current recommendations for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are pushing towards triple combination therapy based on the combination of an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) associated with two bronchodilator agents.
Inhaled long acting bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are the main classes of treatment for COPD.
This population fits the definitions of GOLD A and B groups and could be further stratified by symptom severity using Baseline Dyspnea Index (i.e. modeling GOLD A or B) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) use at baseline.
An inhaled corticosteroid can be added if symptoms persist or exacerbations are frequent.
Bogart M(1), Stanford RH(1), Laliberté F(2), Germain G(2), Wu JW(2), Duh MS(3).Author information:(1)GlaxoSmithKline plc, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA, michael.r.bogart@gsk.com.(2)Groupe d'Analyse, Ltée, Montréal, QC, Canada.(3)Analysis Group Inc., Boston, MA, USA.INTRODUCTION: This longitudinal, retrospective cohort study of patients with COPD describes baseline characteristics, adherence, and persistence following initiation of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)/long-acting beta-agonists (LABA)/long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) from multiple inhaler triple therapy (MITT).METHODS: Patients aged ≥40 years receiving MITT between January 2012 and September 2015 were identified from the IQVIA™ Real-world Data Adjudicated Claims-USA database.
Dispensing of fixed-dose combinations of inhaled corticosteroids with long-acting beta2-agonists, long-acting anti-cholinergics, or long-acting beta2-agonists was identified in a nationwide registry.
KEY RESULTS: Use of fixed-dose combinations of inhaled corticosteroids with long-acting beta2-agonists varied from 2 % to 61 % (p < 0.001, test for trend), long-acting anti-cholinergics varied from 0.4 % to 36 % (p < 0.001), and long-acting beta2-agonists varied from 0.3 % to 11 % (p < 0.001.
Among utilizers of these medications, adherence varied from 29 % to 56 % (p < 0.001, test for trend) across GOLD 1-4 for fixed-dose combinations of inhaled corticosteroids with long-acting beta2-agonists, from 51 % to 68 % (p = 0.11) for long-acting anti-cholinergics, and from 25 to 62 % (p = 0.01) for long-acting beta2-agonists.
This analysis evaluated the impact of a direct switch to once-daily indacaterol/glycopyrronium 110/50 µg (IND/GLY) from previous monotherapy with a long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) or long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) or with an LABA and an inhaled corticosteroid (LABA + ICS) on reducing CID.METHODS: CRYSTAL was a 12-week, prospective, multicenter, randomized, open-label study conducted in clinical practice settings.
During 2 years prior to diagnosis less than 13% of patients were requested with a pulmonology evaluation and less than 5% with a spirometry; 65.1% cases were prescribed with a respiratory drug, which in 9.6% of cases was inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist fixed-dose combination.
Two thousand and twenty eight patients (6.3% of the newly diagnosed chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients) were treated with triple therapy during the first year of follow-up, whose 858 (42.3%) starting immediately, and 762 (37.6%) following an initial treatment with inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist fixed-dose combination.
Being older, being requested with pulmonologist evaluation or spirometry, being prescribed with a inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist fixed-dose combination at diagnosis resulted independent predictors of triple therapy use.
Current guidelines state that inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) should be reserved for patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but it appears that doctors do not always follow this advice.
Systematic reviews (with or without meta-analysis), randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cohort studies and case controlled studies comparing six interventions comprising different combinations of long-acting bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids in unison or on their own.
doi: 10.1517/14656566.2015.1045877.Tiotropium bromide as add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids for treating asthma.
Although first-line therapy with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) with or without long-acting beta agonists (LABA) has significantly improved the clinical outcomes of asthma, they cannot provide all asthmatics with good control and thus alternatives or add-on drugs are required.
Systemic and inhaled corticosteroids were prescribed at higher rates of 20% and 18% compared to long-acting bronchodilators.
The trough FEV1 profile (least squares mean change from baseline) for revefenacin 175 μg ranged from 52.3-124.3 mL and the trough FEV1 profile for tiotropium ranged from 79.7-112.8 mL. In subgroup comparisons, the effect of revefenacin on trough FEV1 was comparable in patients taking concomitant long-acting β-agonists, with or without inhaled corticosteroids, with patients who were not taking these medications.
The LANTERN study evaluated the effect of the long-acting beta-agonist (LABA)/long acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) dual bronchodilator, QVA149 (indacaterol/glycopyrronium), as compared with the LABA/inhaled corticosteroid, salmeterol/fluticasone (SFC), in patients with moderate-to-severe COPD with a history of ≤1 exacerbation in the previous year.
The incidence of pneumonia was threefold lower with QVA149 (0.8%) versus SFC (2.7%).CONCLUSION: These findings support the use of the LABA/LAMA, QVA149 as an alternative treatment, over LABA/inhaled corticosteroid, in the management of moderate-to-severe COPD patients (GOLD B and GOLD D) with a history of ≤1 exacerbation in the previous year.
PURPOSE: Guidelines recommend the use of triple therapy with an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), a long-acting beta agonist (LABA) and a long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) to reduce the risk of future exacerbations in symptomatic COPD patients with a history of exacerbations.
The results of the trials in mild to moderate asthma showed that adding tiotropium to inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) was not inferior to adding long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs).
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of roflumilast in COPD patients already receiving triple therapy (long-acting β-agonist/inhaled corticosteroids and long acting muscarinic antagonist).METHODS: Prospective registry that included COPD patients who were prescribed roflumilast added to triple therapy.
We assessed 1-year adherence to COPD maintenance pharmacotherapy (encompassing inhaled corticosteroids, long acting beta agonists and long acting beta agonistss).
Overall, 614 patients (89%) received treatment containing inhaled corticosteroid.
Inappropriateness of therapies was due to overtreatment in early stages and excessive use of inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in all disease stages.
2020 Jan 21;15:155-156.BACKGROUND: This study aims to compare the effects of single inhaler triple therapy comprised of inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs), long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs), and long acting muscarinic receptor antagonists (LAMAs) with dual therapies comprised of either LABA/LAMA, ICS/LABA or separate ICS/LABA plus LAMA triple therapy.
The LANTERN study evaluated the efficacy of IND/GLY compared with inhaled long-acting beta-agonist (LABA)/inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) or salmeterol/fluticasone (SFC) in patients with moderate-to-severe COPD with a history of ≤1 exacerbation in the previous year.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) from tiotropium added to inhaled long-acting beta agonists (LABAs) and inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs) in a nationwide population with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).PATIENTS AND METHODS: This nested case-control study included 65,966 patients with COPD treated with LABAs and ICSs identified from the Taiwan nationwide health care claims database from January 1, 2007, through June 30, 2011.
Pooled data are presented for the following subgroups: prior maintenance treatment with LAMA or LABA, Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) 2 (predicted FEV1 50% to <80%) and 3 (30% to <50%)/4 (<30%), sex, age, and prior use of inhaled corticosteroids.
Anticholinergic agents (63%), short- (48%) and long-acting (38%) β-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids (41%) were the most commonly used medications.
Correct administration can increase the efficacy of short-acting beta-agonists, long-acting beta-agonists, short- and long acting beta agonists agents, and inhaled corticosteroids, achieving reduction and alleviation of dyspnea.
neil.c.barnes@gsk.com.(4)Respiratory Medicines Development Centre, GSK, Stockley Park West, 1-3 Ironbridge Road, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UB11 1BT, UK.BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients with blood eosinophil (EOS) count ≥ 2% benefit from exacerbation reductions with inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs).
Abbreviations: 5-LOi: 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor; ACOS: asthma - COPD overlap syndrome; B2AR: Beta2 adrenergic receptors; cAMP: cyclic adenosine monophosphate; cGMP: cyclic guanosine monophosphate; CI: confidence interval; COPD: chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; CRS : chronic rhinosinusitis; cys-LT: cysteinyl leukotrienes; DPI: dry powder inhaler; EMA: European Medicines Agency; FDA: US Food and Drug Administration; FDC: fixed-dose combination; FeNO: exhaled nitric oxide; FEV1: forced expiratory volume in one second; FVC: forced vital capacity; GM-CSF: granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor; ICS : inhaled corticosteroids; IL: interleukin; ILC2: Type 2 innate lymphoid cells; IP3: Inositol triphosphate; IRR: incidence rate ratio; KOLD: Korean Obstructive Lung Disease; LABA: long-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; LAMA: long acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; LRA: leukotriene receptor antagonist; LT: leukotrienes; MDI: metered-dose inhalers; MN: M-subtype muscarinic receptors; MRA: muscarinic receptor antagonist; NAC: N-acetylcysteine; NEB: nebulization; OR: odds ratio; PDE: phosphodiesterase; PEFR: peak expiratory flow rate; PGD2: prostaglandin D2; PRN: as needed; RR: risk ratio; SABA: short-acting B2 adrenergic receptor agonist; SAMA: short-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist; SDMI: spring-driven mist inhaler; Th1: T helper cell 1 lymphocyte; Th2: T helper cell 2 lymphocytes; TNF-α: tumor necrosis factor alpha; US : United States.
Triple inhaled therapy for maintenance of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) consists of an inhaled corticosteroid, long acting muscarinic antagonist, and long-acting beta2-agonist.
Here, we propose a simplified therapeutic algorithm for the treatment of COPD patients taking into consideration the current evidence on the use of bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids.
In subgroup analysis, subjects who were on triple therapy (long-acting beta2-agonist [LABA], long acting muscarinic antagonist [LAMA], and inhaled corticosteroids [ICS]) had the highest frequencies of exacerbations and severe exacerbations and tended to have increased quantitative measures of emphysema and gas trapping on CT compared to other five groups.
Despite guideline recommendations that combined long-acting beta-agonists and inhaled corticosteroids should only be used in individuals at high risk of exacerbation, there is substantial use in individuals at lower risk.
Dyspnea should initially be managed with the combination of long acting muscarinic antagonists and long-acting β-agonist inhalers, adding inhaled corticosteroids if symptoms persist.
BACKGROUND: Patients with COPD show a significant reduction of the lobar hyperinflation at the functional residual capacity level in the patients who improved >120 mL in forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) after 6 months of treatment with roflumilast in addition to inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs)/long-acting beta-2 agonists (LABAs)/long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs).METHODS: Functional respiratory imaging was used to quantify lobar hyperinflation, blood vessel density, ventilation, aerosol deposition, and bronchodilation.
This retrospective study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of tiotropium RespimatⓇ (Tio-Res) in symptomatic, never-smoking, elderly asthmatics with irreversible airflow limitation despite the use of high-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) plus long-acting beta-adrenoceptor agonists (LABA).METHODS: The Asthma Control Test™ (ACT), pulmonary function tests, morning and evening peak flow (mPEF, ePEF, respectively, evaluated with an ASSESS® peak flow meter), and respiratory impedance (assessed with MostGraph®) were measured before and after a minimum of one year of Tio-Res 5 µg/day administration.
doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD011437.pub2.long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) added to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) versus higher dose ICS for adults with asthma.
Evans DJ(1), Kew KM, Anderson DE, Boyter AC.Author information:(1)Lancaster Patient Safety Research Unit, Royal Lancaster Infirmary, Pointer Court 1, Ashton Road, Lancaster, UK, LA1 4RP.BACKGROUND: long acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), a class of drugs with proven effectiveness in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), are being considered as an add-on option for adults with asthma whose condition is uncontrolled on inhaled corticosteroids (ICS).
Comparative effectiveness studies indicate that it is constantly superior to a LAMA or a LABA alone or even a LABA/inhaled corticosteroid combination, regardless of the drugs used.
The aim of this study was to analyze Siglec-5/14 expression in induced sputum cells of COPD patients in the following treatment combinations: (1) a long-acting beta2-agonist, formoterol; (2) formoterol combined with a long-acting antimuscarinic agent, tiotropium; and (3) formoterol combined with an inhaled corticosteroid or formoterol combined with tiotropium and with an inhaled corticosteroid.
Siglec-5/14 expression was significantly higher in patients receiving combined therapy including inhaled corticosteroids compared with patients taking only formoterol or formoterol + tiotropium.
Our results suggest that inhaled corticosteroids may exert beneficial or negative effects, depending on the patients' phenotype, through increased immunosuppressive Siglec-5 or immunoactivatory Siglec-14 receptors, respectively.
Studies have shown that an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS)/long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) combination is also efficacious in reducing symptoms and exacerbations.
The GLISTEN trial compared the efficacy of two long-acting anti-muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), when combined with an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) and a long-acting beta agonist (LABA).METHODS: This randomised, blinded, placebo-controlled trial in moderate/severe COPD patients compared once-daily glycopyrronium (GLY) 50 µg, once-daily tiotropium (TIO) 18 µg or placebo (PLA), when combined with salmeterol/fluticasone propionate (SAL/FP) 50/500 µg twice daily.
The newer combination, indacaterol/glycopyrronium, is useful as a once-a-day therapy and has proven superior to other treatment strategies including inhaled corticosteroids for improving symptoms and clinical condition with a very rapid effect.
Epub 2015 Feb 12.Tiotropium or salmeterol as add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids for patients with moderate symptomatic asthma: two replicate, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, active-comparator, randomised trials.
2015 May;3(5):e17.BACKGROUND: In patients with severe asthma, tiotropium improves lung function and exacerbation risk when added to high-dose inhaled corticosteroids plus long-acting beta agonists.
We aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of tiotropium in patients with moderate asthma who were symptomatic despite treatment with medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids.
Eligible patients were aged 18-75 years with symptomatic asthma and a pre-bronchodilator forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) of 60-90% predicted despite use of medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids, and had never smoked or were ex-smokers for 1 year or more with 10 pack-years or less.
Patients were randomly assigned (1:1:1:1), with computer-generated pseudorandom numbers, to receive once-daily tiotropium 5 μg or 2·5 μg, twice-daily salmeterol 50 μg, or placebo, while maintaining inhaled corticosteroids.
48 (2%) of 2100 patients had serious adverse events (tiotropium 5 μg n=11, tiotropium 2·5 μg n=12, salmeterol n=11, placebo n=14).INTERPRETATION: Once-daily tiotropium add-on to medium-dose inhaled corticosteroids reduces airflow obstruction and improves asthma control in patients with moderate symptomatic asthma.
The emergence of a fixed-dose combination (FDC) of a long-acting beta-agonists (LABAS), a long acting beta agonists agent (LAMA), and an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) in a single inhalation device has changed the approach to inhaled therapy.
The budesonide/glycopyrronium/formoterol fumarate dihydrate metered dose inhaler (BGF MDI) is an inhaled corticosteroid/long acting muscarinic antagonist/long-acting beta-agonist fixed-dose combination formulated with innovative co-suspension delivery technology that is in clinical development for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Epub 2016 Jul 2.Safety and tolerability of once-daily tiotropium Respimat(®) as add-on to at least inhaled corticosteroids in adult patients with symptomatic asthma: A pooled safety analysis.
BACKGROUND: Tiotropium, a long acting beta agonists bronchodilator, has demonstrated efficacy and safety as add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), with or without other maintenance therapies, in patients with symptomatic asthma.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: CHF 5993 is an extrafine 'triple therapy' combination of the long acting muscarinic antagonist glycopyrronium bromide (GB), the long-acting beta-agonist formoterol fumarate (FF), and the inhaled corticosteroid beclometasone dipropionate (BDP).
Moreover, an increase in the prescription of both the combination of the two bronchodilators (LABA + LAMA) and their association with inhaled corticosteroids has been observed with increasing severity of COPD.
RESULTS: Of the 2,042 study patients, 83% were prescribed an inhaled corticosteroid and 68% a long-acting beta agonist during the baseline year; 67% were prescribed both.
Given the large and growing body of evidence, it is likely that as clinical experience with tiotropium increases, this treatment may possibly emerge as the key choice for add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids/long-acting beta-agonists, and in patients who do not tolerate long-acting bronchodilators or other medications, in the future.
These 11 therapies were for patients with heart failure (angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers, aldosterone receptor antagonists and digoxin), stable coronary artery disease (intensive statin therapy), asthma exacerbations (early inhaled corticosteroids in the emergency department and anticholinergics), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (long acting muscarinic antagonists and long-acting beta-2 adrenoceptor agonists) and schizophrenia (second-generation antipsychotics and depot/maintenance antipsychotics).CONCLUSIONS: We identified 11 medications supported by strong evidence and clinical guidelines that could be considered in quality monitoring and improvement strategies to help reduce emergency hospital admission rates.
BACKGROUND: Many patients with asthma remain symptomatic despite treatment with inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) with or without long-acting beta-agonists (LABAs).
Patients with acute exacerbations may benefit from the addition of inhaled corticosteroids, particularly those with elevated peripheral eosinophil levels.
Appropriate use of long-acting maintenance bronchodilators, inhaled corticosteroids, and pulmonary rehabilitation decreases symptoms, optimizes functional performance, and reduces exacerbation frequency.
Current guidelines recommend starting monotherapy with an inhaled bronchodilator, stepping up to combination therapy as needed, and/or adding inhaled corticosteroids as symptom severity and airflow obstruction progress.
